

"We're ready to welcome baby Lowell," Veronica said to me, her voice happy.

We were standing in the doorway of the nursery, admiring the furniture I'd put together and all of the details and decorations she'd put into the room to make it cozy for the baby. My mother-in-law and Veronica's grannies had made the baby's layette and my wife said the hens would all work on some pink or blue clothes once the baby arrived.

"The baby will have more outfits than we know what to do with," she laughed. "I bet by the time I get out of the hospital, they'll have all the little outfits done."

I thought of the house without Veronica for more than a week and knew I'd be at the hospital until visiting hours were over each of those days. In the two months since our convalidation ceremony, we'd been easier with each other, more comfortable. One night I'd come home from a long day in court and Veronica had surprised me with dinner, and she'd cooked every night after.

I sat beside Veronica on the couch, watching TV every night. She laughed at , and she loved the . I preferred  and , but I didn't really care what we watched together. After we turned off the television, I'd put my hand on her belly and tell the baby it was time to sleep. Then I'd sing a lullaby, and lately Veronica had been singing with me so maybe I sang a little slower to make it last longer. When she looked up at me, I forgot the words sometimes and lost myself in those eyes of hers, then she'd smile at me and I'd have to stop singing and listen to her before I could pick up the song again.

Was this love?

Michael had looked at me like I'd lost my mind one Saturday morning when we were playing golf and I'd asked how he'd known he loved Susan.

"I just did," he sputtered, searching for words, not used to a conversation like this. "She...just being around her made me feel good inside. Happy. And when I thought of the rest of my life, I wanted her to always be with me because I realized that she was my entire life, everything important to me and nothing mattered without her. Now line up your putt. Your short game still needs work."

Veronica made me feel good inside.

She made me feel happy.

I always wanted her to be with me.

That was a start, but I needed more to go on. So I stopped by my in-laws' house after work one night and asked to speak to Patrick. We went outside and he stared at me, suspiciously, waiting for me to start talking.

"I need a taste for this conversation," I said, so he went into his shed and brought back the whiskey bottle. I took a healthy swig and he did, too.

"How did you know you loved your wife?"

His face actually softened.

"Being with her was like hearing angels singing. Glorious. Unexpected. Beautiful. I felt like I could do anything when I was with her. She made me feel stronger and more powerful than I'd ever felt in my life."

I understood everything he was saying.

He stepped closer and thumped me in the chest with the back of his hand. "Most important, she made me want to be a better man. Some women inspire you that way and it's a gift, boyo. It's a fecking gift you've been given. And when you look at a woman and see her as a precious treasure, when you know you'd do anything for her, when you know you'd protect her with your life, when your heart about beats itself out of your chest simply because you're near her, then you know."

So for the months following our ceremony, I paid attention to how I felt and reacted when I was around Veronica, realizing that not every person's definition of love was the same. Sometimes when Veronica gave me a certain glance over her shoulder, it felt like I'd forgotten how to breathe. I'd look over to see her laughing when something funny happened in a TV show. I watched her in the kitchen and admired her grace.

On Sundays, when we walked into church together, her gloved hand tucked inside my arm, I felt proud that I had such a good woman on my arm -- and I somehow knew my father had felt the same way about my mother.

I enjoyed the way her mind worked when we talked about world events, and I found myself sneaking looks at her  magazines to see what she found so interesting in them. When I set up my electric putting machine in the living room one night, she watched me sink about fifty percent of my putts and said she thought she could beat me. Not thinking she was serious, I handed her my putter and set a ball on the ground for her.

She sunk it. We kept going, and she said she wanted an ice cream cone if she won. Even as pregnant as she was, she beat me, laughing the whole time. Veronica was all about laughter, and I realized how that had been missing in my life until I met her.

"Do you forget I have a father, uncles, brothers and cousins who all play golf? Forget Michael helping you with your short game -- help you."

I'd kissed her swiftly on her lips, then grabbed her sweater and a scarf for her hair, and we'd gone to get ice cream. I think she knew I would have taken her for ice cream even if she'd lost. After that first wager, we putted together every night with her asking for some small goodie if she won: McDonald's fries and a shake, a Hershey's bar, a new scarf she'd seen at the five and dime, a teddy bear for the baby.

She never asked for anything but small things, which is why she was so surprised when I took her to the car dealership one Saturday morning. She was feeling miserable since she was now more than a week past her due date, so I thought I'd cheer her up.

"Oh," she said sadly, thinking we were about to turn in the Thunderbird. "I wish we could have had one last ride."

I smiled at her. "No, Roni. We're here to pick up your car, not trade this one in. I was thinking that with your business and the baby, you should have your own car."

"We're going to own two cars?" she asked, practically gasping, her eyes wide.

"Yes," I said. "I didn't use your settlement money, Roni. I'm making more than I did at the old firm, and the Thunderbird's paid for. I put a good amount down, and your car will be paid for in a year or less. Considering it's really the only payment we have, I'll pay it off even earlier."

"Paul! I can't believe this! Thank you!" she said, throwing her arms around my neck, and I hugged her back. I followed Roni home in her Ford Fairlane, thinking the sea sprite green and white car suited her with all of its shiny chrome and detailing.

On Sunday we drove it to her parents' house after church and her family came out to admire the shiny new car. She cheerfully took them all for  short rides around the block, and I noticed a few sour looks from the men.

"You bloody bastard," her uncle hissed at me. "Now the hens are going to be clucking after us to get them their own damn cars."

"What the hell were you thinking, boyo?" her father scowled at me. "We should take you out back again for this."

We avoided that scene because Veronica's car came into view, and she was honking the horn over and over. We all belatedly realized that Veronica wasn't driving, Laoise was, and Veronica was in the passenger seat. She pulled to a stop in the driveway, and all of the women except for Veronica piled out of the car.

"She started having contractions!" Catriona said. "She said she's been feeling off today."

"Take her to the hospital," her mother told me. "Give me the key to your house and I'll meet you there after I stop by your house and pack Roni's bag."

"The hospital?" I repeated stupidly.

"She's having the baby finally! Get her to the hospital!"

I fumbled the keys in my hands, and then fumbled them again when I tried to pick them up. Siobhan yanked them from my hands and took the house key off the ring, then handed the car key back to me.

"Now shoo!" Granny Orla said.

I got into the car and shooed.

"Roni, are you OK?" I asked once we were on our way.

"Yes," she gasped. "Just having another contraction. They came on so suddenly."

"We're almost there, Roni. Hang on."

We made it to the hospital and I helped her inside where a nurse came to take her to the maternity ward. I rushed back outside to park the car, then ran to the hospital and followed directions to the maternity floor.

"I'm Paul Lowell," I said to the nurse behind the desk. "My wife, Veronica Lowell, was just brought in."

"Yes, Mr. Lowell. She's being settled in her room. You can have a seat in the waiting room."

My mother-in-law and Laoise and Catriona arrived half an hour later, Roni's little suitcase packed and their bags of sewing or knitting with them. They settled into the seats in the waiting room, and I found I couldn't sit.

"Oh, go get yourself some coffee," Laoise said. "We could be here for hours before anything happens."

"I'm staying here."

Catriona smiled at me. "Would you like to learn to knit? It'll keep you occupied."

"No."

The doctor came into the waiting room. "Mr. Lowell?"

"Yes. What's wrong? Is my wife OK?"

He nodded. "She's having what we call rapid labor and is progressing quickly."

"Is that good?"

He tilted his head to the side. "It can have some effects on the mother and baby, but everything looks good now. We've sedated her so she's doing just fine and isn't feeling much pain at all. Just have a seat and we'll let you know when the baby's born."

I don't think I'd ever felt so helpless in my life as he walked away. "She'll be OK?"

Her mother nodded. "All my babies came fast. Catriona's did, too. Roni'll be fine."

"I don't even know who her first crush was."

The hens gaped at me, like I'd lost my mind. Maybe I had. But I remembered telling her I wanted us to get to know each other better. I wanted to know her first crush, and I'd tell her what happened during baseball tryouts in seventh grade.

"It was Conor Murphy. Cheeky little bugger," Laoise said.

"Never liked him and told him so," her mother said. "She got over him quick enough when he was caught walking Sorcha Reilly home. Oh, Roni blistered his ears when he showed up on our porch and tried to plead his innocence, then her brothers took him out back for a quick word."

I could imagine how that had gone, but I couldn't imagine what Veronica was going through now and it bothered me. I closed my eyes briefly, trying not to think of my mother dying so soon after giving birth. No baby should lose a parent, but a mother especially. I was beginning to understand what I'd missed by not having a mother as I watched Veronica's mother and aunts with their children. They had sharp tongues when needed, but they loved their children fiercely.

I wanted a chance to tell Veronica that myself and all that it meant.

After an hour of pacing, Laoise threatened to stab me with her knitting needles if I didn't sit down. So I sat for a while before I needed to move again, so I walked the hallway outside the waiting room. Up and down. Up and down. For two more hours I paced, and then the door opened and the doctor was smiling at me, and I heard the hens come up.

"Is my wife OK?"

"She is."

"And the baby?"

"Congratulations, Mr. Lowell, it's a girl. She's perfect."

My mother-in-law hugged me tight, followed by Catriona and Laoise.

"When can I see her?" I asked. "Them."

"She's coming out from the sedation so give us a few more minutes."

Those few minutes seemed to take forever, but eventually I was allowed into my wife's room where she was holding the baby. She looked at me, still groggy, but her smile was blinding.

"We have a girl," she said softly.

"We do, and I'm so thankful you two are OK," I said, pressing a kiss to my wife's lips.

"Do you want to know her name?" Roni asked as we both admired our daughter's tiny features.

"I'd love to."

"Mary Kathleen, for your mother."

I could only look at Roni and marvel at the depth of her soul. Patrick's words came rushing back to me.



I knew.

