

--- Copyright Notice ---



All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photocopying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written permission of the author.

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents are products of the author's imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events, locations or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.



--- Author's Note ---

You met Paul, the lawyer with the mint green Thunderbird, in .

You've seen Paul and Veronica (but might not have known it!) in .

Now that I'm finishing up some WIPs, I'm moving ahead with the other stories.  is at a point where I needed to fill you in on Paul and Veronica so the next chapter of G&L makes sense.



--- Chapter 1 (Veronica): The Only Real Option ---



I wanted to leave. I'd felt out of place before, but never to this degree, never had I been so politely snubbed by so many people who just...dismissed me. Could I blame them, though? They were probably just taking their cues from my husband. He'd brought me to a couple of work parties and each time, he'd drifted away from me to talk with other people, leaving me on my own until it was time to leave.

Nobody really talked with me, so I tried to make small talk with them, only to have them move away as quickly and as politely as possible. After this happened about a dozen times, I just gave up and waited for Paul to find me when he was ready to leave.

I'd met him at a nightclub and when we left the club together that first night, I'd done something my gran and my mother had always warned me against: I gave away the milk for free for the first and only time in my life. Every weekend after that when he'd show up at the club, I'd boldly ask him to dance, and he'd agree but there was never a of that first time.

I knew I hadn't been a good Catholic girl, but there was something irresistible about Paul to me, with his dark brown hair and blue eyes. He was so much different than the crude, rough men I knew. He was quieter, educated and more refined. I grew up in a loud family where the men had blue collar jobs, the women had lots of babies, people drank and laughed unrestrainedly, talked at the top of their voice and razzed each other constantly.

When I found out I was pregnant a couple of months later, I told Paul we needed to talk after he danced with me, so he followed me outside.

Never would I forget the look on his face when I told him. Shock, dismay and irritation chased across his features, one after the other. He asked me if the baby was his and I told him he was the only man I'd ever been with.

To give him credit, Paul believed me and curtly told me he'd marry me. We'd had a quiet courthouse ceremony, which displeased my Catholic family.

"You're not married in the eyes of the church!" my mother had wailed when we'd broken the news to my family after the fact.

My father and brothers looked like they wanted to beat the hell out of Paul. My sisters just looked at him like he was a dreamy movie star basically because he looked even more handsome than most of them. If you're paying to read this, you're reading a stolen book. Go to wattpad and search for paul and veronica by groveltohea and read it there for free. But Paul held firm in the face of my family's disapproval and disappointment that we'd eloped, and he'd told them there'd be no church wedding so things were strained between them.

That left me torn between my husband and my family, and if I wanted to see my relatives, I usually took the bus while Paul was playing golf on Saturday mornings. It was good to see my family...and it wasn't. They always questioned why I was coming to see them alone and demanding to know when Paul and I were going to have a convalidation ceremony in the church to legitimize and bless our marriage.

If I had to guess based on the little I knew about my husband...never?

Paul had told me he was a Methodist and didn't go to church but I would later find out...that wasn't true. I'd found a Catholic church near Paul's house and walked there every Sunday morning by myself. In the three months we'd been married, I'd tried to be the very best wife I could, keeping the house spotless and making delicious meals, ones Paul told me he liked after he complained about some of the meals I'd been making. I made his breakfast every morning, had his coffee ready and packed his lunch. I kissed him good bye in the morning and welcomed him home with a kiss. He always turned his face so I got his cheek.

If he wasn't very talkative with me, I understood marriage was a big adjustment and it was taking him time to...well, . Being a lawyer, I knew he had to bring work home, but every night after dinner, he'd disappear into his study and close the door. Since I was exhausted by the end of the day, I was always asleep when Paul came to bed, and I sometimes didn't wake up until I heard his alarm. Then I had to hurry to get everything ready before he left.



--- Chapter 2 (Veronica): Good Morning, Paul ---



Paul and I entered the house silently, and I wondered nastily what he'd think when he realized he'd said good-bye to his boss with pink smudges on his lips. Lipstick that clearly wasn't his trashy wife's bold red.

No, Barbara's lipstick was an understated pink. The perfect color for a perfect lady. Except she wasn't a perfect lady. A perfect lady wouldn't kiss a man she knew was married, and not only kiss him but kiss him so hard that she smeared her lipstick.



"Veronica," he called to me and his voice was irritated.

"Yes, Paul?" I was sweeter than five pounds of sugar.

"You let me say good bye to my boss with lipstick on my lips?"

A plan was forming, but I would allow myself to bite back just a bit for tonight. A gentle bite, so he wouldn't be too suspicious. Tomorrow would bring a new Roni. Veronica.

"Had it been my lipstick, I would have mentioned it. Since it wasn't..." I shrugged delicately. "I thought that was best left to your paramour to mention it. She saw it, too, and I wouldn't want to embarrass you."

"Para -- she's not my paramour," he said icily.

"She put her lips on a married man. Something I find hard to understand given that I respect the bonds of matrimony. I wouldn't kiss a married man or allow one to kiss me."

"You don't know what happened."

"No, you're right," I lied because I'd heard every scathing word, every disgusting insult, every horrible plan for the future. But he wouldn't know that since I wasn't showing my hand. If you're paying to read this, you are reading a stolen version of paul and veronica. Go to wattpad and search for paul and veronica by groveltohea so you can read it for free. "But I can guess because two seconds after I walked outside, you came around the corner with Barbara and not much smears lipstick and transfers it to a man's lips other than a kiss."

"Barbara and I shared a past." He was so calm. I could see how he would remain unflappable in the courtroom. He was, however, eyeing me as if he expected me to be angry.

"A past that should be left squarely behind you given your circumstances," I reminded him.

I wanted to see if he would say anything, give even a hint that he was planning to have our marriage annulled. But his face gave nothing away, not even a flicker to show he was embarrassed by his behavior. No wonder he was a young lawyer on the rise. Nothing ruffled him. Had he apologized or shown any remorse for those pink lipstick smears, I would have considered forgiving him.

He did not, so it was full steam ahead with my plan. My plan that was in direct opposition to his annulment scheme.

"I'm going to go to bed," I said, yawning delicately behind my hand. "Would you like me to get you a drink before I go?"

He seemed stunned that I'd offered. He'd probably thought I was getting ready to cry and plead with him not to kiss her again or get angry and begin yelling. But I'd said all I needed to on the subject.



"I'll take two fingers of whiskey. Neat," he said, maybe testing me to see if I was going to throw it in his face.

Instead, I walked over to the bar and poured him his whiskey. Then I walked back toward him and handed him the glass.

"Here you go," I said sweetly.

"Thank you," he said, still tentative.

It was time to start the charade, so I put my hand on his forearm for a moment and squeezed gently while I lied, dropping my voice so it was a bit sultry. "Thank you for taking me to the party tonight. I had a nice time. Good night, Paul."

That definitely confused him because he knew what those parties were like for me, but his face returned to unreadable quickly. "Good night, Veronica."

Tomorrow, he wouldn't know what hit him.

When he came into the living room the next morning, I was already in the kitchen making eggs and bacon, and the coffee had finished percolating. I had on a short, silky robe I'd made and hardly any makeup. My hair was in a ponytail and my smile was bright and blinding.

"Good morning, Paul," I said cheerily. "Breakfast is almost ready. Could I get you a cup of coffee?"

His eyes were focused on my bare legs. . I'd always worn my longer robe in the morning and he usually blasted out of the house, ignoring the breakfast I made for him.

"I know you usually don't eat breakfast, but I thought with your long day in court, it might give you an extra...."

My voice was softer this morning as I purposefully tried to make it less brash and objectionable. I made sound suggestive and husky, and his eyes dipped to my legs again.

"That...would be nice," he said. "How did you know I was in court all day?"

"You told me last week. I remember everything you say, Paul."

He set his briefcase down.

"Have a seat," I said as I slid his plate in place. Seconds later, I placed his coffee in front of him. "One sugar and a splash of cream, just the way you like it."

"Thank you."



"I thought I'd make meatloaf and mashed potatoes tonight."

"I don't know what time I'll be home."

.

"I can keep a plate warm for you."

"I may have to meet clients for dinner, so don't go to any trouble."

"It's never any trouble for you. It's my job as your wife to take care of you."

He looked at me as if he didn't quite know what to make of me.



He finished his breakfast and stood up.

"Oh," I said, pointing to his tie. "Your knot's a bit crooked. Let me fix it."

Before he could protest, I moved very close to him and my fingers began undoing his tie. I'd spritzed on some perfume before I came downstairs this morning, and he stilled. We hadn't been this close since we'd gotten married. Pretending this was normal, my fingers worked their magic, and I thanked the heavens that I had brothers who were helpless with tying their ties. I adjusted it into place and then smoothed my hands down his chest.

And kept them there as I stepped even closer and tilted my face up to his.

"It's perfect now. You look like a successful, handsome lawyer who's going to win. Now you need to get a wiggle on so you're not late."

His eyes were focused on my lips for a moment, and, given the intensity of that look, I wondered when he'd last been fully intimate with a woman. Since before we'd married? He stepped back and thanked me. Grabbing his briefcase and his hat off the hook, he walked out, and I followed after him.

"Good luck today, Paul."

I waved him off cheerily as he backed his Thunderbird out of the driveway and although he didn't wave back, I still felt like this morning was a success. He was definitely off balance.

I spent much of my morning shopping, and I cleaned the house in the afternoon before I cooked dinner. Paul didn't make it home until after eight, but I didn't see any lipstick on him nor did I smell any perfume. His tie was loosened and he looked tired.

"Long day?" I asked, meeting him at the door with a whiskey.

"Yes. But I won my case." He accepted the drink gratefully and I made sure our fingers touched.

"That's because you're brilliant. Did you eat?" I asked like the perfect wife.

"Not much," he said. "Business dinners tend to devolve into talking and not a lot of eating."

"I have a plate I've kept warm for you if you want it."

"Sure. That'd be great," he agreed. "Thank you."

I put the plate on the table, and he sat and ate while I finished up some dishes. This was so awkward and stilted, but I was determined to prevail.

After I washed his dishes and put them away, I passed him and touched his shoulder. "I'm going to go take a bath."

"I'll be coming up after I finish reviewing my calendar for tomorrow."



I added my Estee Lauder Youth Dew bath oil to the water and slid into the tub, savoring the feel of the water on my skin, rubbing my little bump. I allowed myself fifteen minutes, then got out of the tub and dried off.

Taking my new baby blue peignoir set and slipping it on, I relished the silky feel of the material. Since it was high waisted, it minimized my belly and accentuated my growing curves. I looked the best I ever had in my life. My skin glowed and my hair was soft and thick.

I slipped the robe off and put it on the end of the bed. I rubbed my Avon Pink Lady cold cream on my face, and then I sat on the bed, knees up and my nightgown pulled high up on my thighs. Hearing Paul on the stairs, I forced myself to hold the risqué position and look nonchalant as I applied my Avon lotion to my right leg.

As he walked into the room, Paul hesitated, his eyes once again on my legs, seeing more of them than he ever had. When I finished my leg, I moved to my arm, slowly drawing my fingers up and down, up and down. He was still standing there as I moved to my left leg and  finished with my left arm.

I got off the bed and walked over to Paul. Brushing past him, I paused at the light switch.

"Do you mind if I turn off the light?"

"I'll turn it off when I come to bed." His eyes were eating me up, and I felt like those sirens in mythology we learned about in high school who lured sailors with their enchanting songs.

"OK," I said. Reaching up on my toes, I kissed him briefly on the lips, my hand lightly caressing his chest. "Good night. I'm proud of you winning your case today."

He headed for the bathroom and I got into bed. Paul came to bed not too long after and fell asleep pretty quickly. I knew from past experience that the night before he was due in court, he didn't sleep well, so I wasn't surprised he was out so fast.

I allowed myself to scoot closer to him in bed. When morning came, I was cuddled next to his chest. His eyes were blinking sleepily, slowly realizing he was holding me and stroking my back. I smiled at him before getting out of bed, acting as if this happened all the time.

"Good morning, Paul."

The look he gave me was heated, and I hadn't seen it since the first night we were together.

Seducing my husband might not be as hard as I thought.



--- Chapter 3 (Veronica): The Proper Way To Behave ---



For the next month, I continued to be the perfect wife. Always a smile when Paul left and came home, greeting him at the door with his whiskey, dinner always on the table promptly at six, or a plate was warming in the oven for him if he was late.

I tried not to let his late nights worry me, but I was somewhat assured that I never found a trace of lipstick on him or his clothes, and he never smelled of another perfume. Of course, none of that meant anything, but I was trying to remain optimistic for my plan.

Each morning, I treated him to glimpses of my legs as I made him breakfast and each night he found me massaging lotion on my legs and arms. One night, I tilted my head back and worked the lotion onto my neck with my fingertips. When I turned my head, I caught him staring.

"Is everything OK, Paul?" I asked, making my voice husky.

"It's fine," he said brusquely.

Getting up, I took off my silky robe, forcing myself to be brave as I laid it across the end of the bed. I'd found a remnant of emerald green silk at the fabric store and had sewn it into a low-cut, short baby doll nightie. Bending over slightly, giving my husband an excellent view of my bosom, I pulled back the covers of the bed, then nonchalantly walked over to Paul's side of the bed and folded back his covers. I was ready to faint from my bold actions, and I tried not to let him see that I was nervous.

When I turned around, he was right behind me, and I stumbled back, his arms quickly grabbing my waist to keep me from falling.

"Oh, I'm so sorry," I said, making my voice breathy -- which wasn't that hard since I was completely out of my element -- allowing my hands to lightly caress his chest before I moved out of his hold.



Well, I hadn't followed Aunt Cat's advice after a certain nightclub evening, but I was determined to stick to it now. I had to for my plan, for my future and my baby's future.

"I like your nightie," he said, and I would have thought he was strangling on those words. He seemed surprised when he said them.

"Oh, thank you. I made it from some fabric I picked up at Woolworth's for just pennies."

"You made that?"

It's funny how one sentence can change the path of your life, and it obviously wasn't the first time a sentence had changed my life since I was pregnant and married to a man who despised everything about me.

Well, everything, based on the warmth in his eyes when he caught sight of my bare legs and arms.

But with those words and his surprise at my skill with a needle, I thought perhaps I could be a seamstress and make clothes for people for less than they could buy them for. I made my own clothes all the time from designs that floated around in my head. I'd need to think about that as part of my plan. It might not make me rich, but it might be something to consider if Paul divorced me and I needed to make a living to support my child.

"Yes, I did."

If I expected him to say anything else, I was disappointed because he turned and went into the bathroom. He stayed in there for quite a while, so I finally gave up and got into bed. When Paul eventually came to bed, I was on my back humming an Irish lullaby to my baby, rubbing my midriff where my child was growing. Lately I'd been feeling little flutters inside and I wondered if that was my baby.

"What are you doing?" he asked harshly.

"Nothing."

"You were singing. And rubbing...here." He indicated his stomach.

"Oh." I didn't realize what I was doing was wrong. No matter what I did, would I continue to keep proving myself to be an odd ball in his eyes? "I...I was singing a lullaby to the baby. An Irish lullaby."

That was the wrong thing to say.

"Don't. It's ridiculous," he said sharply. "The baby hasn't even been born yet."

I blushed in embarrassment. I didn't know the rules, but apparently I needed to learn them quickly. I'd take the bus to the library tomorrow and ask the librarian for a book to teach me what I needed to learn.

Mustering up a smile, I said, "I'm sorry, Paul. I honestly didn't know it was wrong. I won't do it anymore."  "Good night. I hope you sleep...well."



I turned on my side before he could see the tears in my eyes. He didn't move for a few minutes, then he turned off the lights, and I cried silently. I'd made my bed. I was lying in it. But it was horribly uncomfortable, and I'd never been so lonely in my life.

In the morning, I was up early, making his breakfast as his coffee percolated. I kept telling myself that last night was just a setback in my plan, and a minor one at that. Today I'd find help at the library and become better so my plan wouldn't be at risk.

He came into the kitchen and I heard him slide into his seat.

"Good morning, Paul!" I said brightly as if he hadn't made me cry last night. "I made some oatmeal for you. I have some raisins, brown sugar and cream if you'd like to fix it to your liking. Your toast will be ready in a minute. Would you prefer grape or strawberry jam this morning?"

"Grape is fine," he said. "Thank you."

I placed his coffee in front of him and handed him the jam pot. His toast was finished so I put that on a separate plate and handed it to him. He ate silently, reading the front page headlines and stories.

He got up, put on his suit jacket and hat, then picked up his briefcase.

"My boss asked me to host a dinner party next Friday. I told him we would. Do you think you can manage that?"

The  was heavily implied.

Swallowing what I wanted to say down, I smiled pleasantly. "Of course. For how many people?"

"Twelve, including us."

"That won't be a problem."



"None of that strange food you made when we were first married."



"Of course not, Paul. What if I show you a possible menu tomorrow?"

"That'll be fine." He hesitated again. "And as for what to wear --"

I waved my hand with a smile instead of smacking his face. I could picture my aunt smacking her loudmouth husband in the back of his head and then him leering at her as he tickled her, telling her not to be mad.

"I have just the dress in mind. Perhaps I could show it to you for your approval this weekend? That way, if you don't like it, I could shop for another one with plenty of time to spare."

"That's fine. I'll have the addresses of everyone you need to send an invitation to by tonight so you can get the invitations in the mail tomorrow. I'll write out what the invitations should say."

That was a relief because where I came from, you just called up family or friends and told them to come over for dinner or even just yelled across backyards. I was also relieved when Paul took off for work because I needed to accomplish a great deal. After getting dressed, I headed for the crosstown bus so I could walk the two blocks to the library.

There were two librarians working and I picked the more sympathetic, motherly-looking one.  her nametag read.

"I need help," I said to her. "I need to know how to act right. And plan a dinner party for my husband's boss and colleagues. I don't know what to make. I also need to know how to dress and do my makeup and hair so I don't embarrass him. I've met many of these people before, but I don't fit in and they haven't been welcoming."

Mrs. Thompson looked a little shell-shocked after I rattled off my woes to her.

"Poor dear. You look overwhelmed."

She didn't get fired up as I expected. Instead she was calm.

"I am. He's a lawyer and we're from completely different social circles."

"First, to address that, we can get you Emily Post's It's a wonderful starting point for social graces and moving about in society without putting your foot wrong."

"That sounds perfect," I said. "Exactly what I need. Thank you."

"Next, I'm going to call my sister. She's a well-known hostess in town and she can guide you as to what your menu should be, what kind of dress you should wear, as well as how you should do your hair and apply your makeup."

"Oh, do you think she'd help me? I could pay her." I didn't spend much of the pin money Paul gave me every week.

"Let me call her and see what she says, shall I?"

"Oh, please," I said. "I'll be eternally grateful."

Mrs. Thompson's sister, Mrs. Wilson, looked me over critically when she arrived. "So we have a bit of the Pygmalion effect happening here?"

I shook my head, not knowing what she was talking about.

"Don't worry, dear, I'll guide you through this. We all have to start somewhere, and my mother-in-law, God rest her soul, helped guide me through my first formal dinner parties."

We spent two hours together, coming up with a menu she approved of and we made plans to meet the next day to go dress shopping for the party. She told me of a stationer's who would have some elegant, blank invitations for me to buy.

After stopping at the stationer's, I caught the bus home, mentally reviewing my to-do list. I had my etiquette book to read, and I began it on the bus, my head reeling with all the dos and don'ts just in that short ride.

But later, when Paul handed me the guest list, I knew I'd have to ask Mrs. Wilson the proper way to behave when your husband invited his former...current?...lover to the dinner party you were hosting.



--- Chapter 4 (Veronica): They Surprised Me ---



Paul had approved the menu for the dinner party, I'd gotten the invitations mailed out and I'd finished the dress I'd been working on. Both Mrs. Thompson and Mrs. Wilson had approved of it and they'd actually gushed about it.

"The stitching is exquisite,"Mrs. Wilson had said as she'd closely examined the seams. "You are truly gifted with a needle. This could be sold in the finest boutiques."

"And you feel it's appropriate to wear for a dinner party?"

" would wear this, dear girl, and if I did, I'd be the best-dressed woman at the party. The pale blue is beautiful, the lines are clean and the style is the first word in elegance."

I felt myself blushing at the effusive praise. Now that I had her approval, I could show the dress to Paul tonight and make sure he thought it worthy. I'd been surprised when he'd immediately said the menu for the dinner party sounded good.

"Well begin with cocktails and canapés," I said nervously. "Shrimp cocktail, pinwheels, deviled eggs, cheese balls. For the main course, we'll have prime rib served with mashed potatoes and green beans, rolls and succotash salad because I know how much you like that."

He nodded, his lawyer face on. It always made me uncomfortable because I had no idea what he was thinking.

"For dessert, we'll have coffee, walnut pie and pineapple upside down cake."

"And you can do all of this by yourself?" Paul looked and sounded skeptical.

"Yes, but I'll have some help with the cooking, and I've hired some servers that evening to help with the cocktails and canapés and to serve dinner."

He didn't need to know my mother and aunts would be coming to make food the day before and the day of the dinner party. The people hired to serve and man the bar were people Mrs. Wilson hired for her parties.

"And you know you need to use the fine china?"

Stung, I nodded. Had he really thought I'd serve dinner on paper plates?

"Of course. And your mother's sterling silver, as well as the crystal for the water glasses and wine."

My parents had given us our china for a wedding gift, the Theodore Haviland apple blossom pattern, and Paul had approved of it, oddly enough.

"It's classic," he'd said. "Nothing tasteless, which is what I'd been afraid of."

If I hadn't loved my china so much, I would have thrown every last piece at Paul.

Instead, I'd merely looked at him and told him that wasn't kind and he'd said a dismissive, insincere .

"We also need to go over the seating arrangements," he'd said.

"I've sketched a tentative one," I told him, handing him the paper.

He looked at it critically. "Switch Barbara to be on my right."

. Of course. But I merely nodded, thinking of my goal, and made the adjustments to the seating chart, after which he approved it. Barbara's father, Paul's boss who had asked him to host the party, would be seated on my right as the male guest of honor. Part of me wondered if Barbara had put her father up to this, trying to set me up for failure.

"You've done a good job of seating everyone so couples aren't sitting next to each other."

Was that actual praise? Instead of swatting at Paul because he sounded surprised, I beamed a smile at him as if I was grateful for the compliment. I even stepped toward him and put my hand on his arm briefly.

"Thank you, Paul," I said, looking up at him through my lashes. "I'm trying so hard to make everything perfect for you."

"Make sure it is. There's a lot riding on this evening."



When I'd shown him my dress, he'd approved that, too.

"Elegant. What store is that from?" he'd asked.

I didn't want him to know I'd made it because I loved my dress and felt confident in it, and I needed all the courage I could get to make it through the dinner party. So I lied to him, deciding to tell him the dinner that I'd made it.

"I was in so many dress shops, I don't even remember. It was overwhelming, shopping in stores I don't normally frequent."

"You should try to remember and go back there if you ever need another dress."



Mrs. Wilson came over a couple of times and talked me through formal place settings and knowing which piece of silverware to use at which point during the meal, discussed a better furniture arrangement for the day of the dinner party and where I should move the bar.

"It's all about flow, Veronica. Don't you move a thing, though. You get helpers the day of the dinner party to do the heavy lifting."

When I showed her the dress I was making for her as a thank you for her help, her hand fluttered to her chest.

"Oh, you darling girl, you didn't have to do this. This is simply lovely. I don't have any dinner parties planned, but I'm going to arrange one just so I can show off this dress, and you'll come and bask in the praise."

"When I'm done basting it together, I'll have you come over for a fitting."

"I'll look forward to it, but not until after your dinner party. Now, let's clean out your front hall coat closet, because you'll need to take your guests' coats or wraps immediately and hang them up, and it's much easier to do with an empty closet."

The day before the dinner party, my family and friends came over. Mrs. Wilson was in charge of setting the table -- I'd already ironed the tablecloth and the napkins the day before -- and it looked beautiful.

"All we need is the fresh flowers tomorrow in the shorter Waterford vases I'll be bringing. You don't want arrangements that prevent seeing the people across from you."

My father and uncles arrived to do Mrs. Wilson's bidding with the furniture rearranging and bar set up, and my cousins cleaned the house until the windows sparkled and there wasn't a bit of dust to be found. My mother and aunts made the desserts with me, snapped the green beans, mixed up the succotash salad and made all the canapés. The china serving bowls and spoons were set out and the coffeemaker was at-the-ready.

"There," Ma said at the end of the day. "Tomorrow that leaves the prime rib to make. Your father will be bringing the meat straight from the butcher tomorrow morning, and your aunt and I will be over to help make the rolls and the mashed potatoes and to help you cook everything. Siobhan will be here late in the afternoon to do your hair and makeup."

"Thank you so much. I've been so nervous."

My mother took my face in her hands. "It's going to be wonderful, Roni. Paul will be proud when he sees what a good hostess you are."

I hoped so, but I didn't share her confidence, especially with Barbara attending. I felt sure she would scrutinize my every move and find things to pick at like a chicken pecks at the dirt.



The next day, the food was finished, I was wearing my beautiful dress and my hair was tamed into a sleek French twist. I thought it would be better to try to minimize my red curls as much as possible, and everything about my makeup was understated.

When the servers and bartender arrived, I explained the serving details and showed them where everything was. When we sat down to eat, the bartender would shift to carving the meat, while the other servers filled the plates.

Everything was in readiness when Paul came home, and he stopped short as he saw me and took me in from head to toe.

"You look nice," he said before he hurried upstairs to change.

Nice. I looked nice. I'd probably never looked better in my life, and all he could say was I looked nice. Where was my rolling pin?

I didn't have much time to dwell on his lukewarm compliment as my mind was working frantically to remember all the rules of etiquette and to recall the conversational gambits Mrs. Wilson had prepared me with.

"Try to relax, Veronica. Keep in mind that the hallmark of a good hostess is making your guests feel welcome and at ease. You're going to emerge victorious from this evening. I know a couple of the women attending your party and they'll love you."

The doorbell rang and Paul said quietly, "Try not to say much, and you'll be fine."

Did Emily Post address kicking one's husband as guests arrived? Or did she recommend waiting until after the dinner party was over?

I smiled blandly at him and we welcomed our guests together. Despite what Paul said, I greeted each guest warmly, taking their coats, showing them to the bar as the servers began making the rounds with the canapés.

Of course, Barbara and her father were the last ones to arrive. Barbara swept in, regal in a black gown.

"You look beautiful," Paul greeted her with cheek kiss and a compliment.

She looked beautiful. I looked nice. Suddenly, kicking him didn't seem like enough.

"Hello, Victoria," she said.

I was faced with several options. Call her Belinda. Correct my name. Ignore her pettiness.

I took the high road because anything else would let her know that she'd gotten to me. Petty women didn't like their barbs being ignored.

"It's lovely to see you, Barbara. Welcome. May I take your coat?"

Her eyes narrowed a bit but she handed me her coat and spoke to me in extremely low tones. "You'd make a good maid."



From that moment on, Barbara threw subtle digs my way but in such a way that they didn't quite sound like that.

To the men, anyway.

To the other women present, however...they knew. And they surprised me.



--- Chapter 5 (Veronica): Little Did I Know ---



I'd never been in such polite, genteel, lethal company. In my family, cups and beer bottles might be thrown, but we never pretended to be genteel. At this gathering, everyone's manners were impeccable, but there was something dark hidden under the cloak of civility. The dinner began well enough. Everyone was served at almost the same time, and we soon were all chatting and enjoying the meal.

Except for someone who was biding her time.

"I find it quite... to have such simple fare for a formal dinner," Barbara said to no one in particular after a few minutes. She inclined her head toward me. "My compliments to you, Mrs. Lowell, on not aspiring to the pretentious elegance one normally expects at gatherings such as this, and allowing us all to have the opportunity to experience something so...down home."

My eyes flitted to Paul as Barbara delivered her poison on a platter of politeness, and his eyes were narrowed on me as if  made a blunder. I was scrambling for what to say, my Emily Post knowledge fleeing in the face of Barbara's sharp darts.

Then something unexpected happened. I discovered I had allies.

"Simple fare?" Mrs. Adams, the wife of one of the law firm's biggest clients, laughed lightly. "Miss Hall, I can't think of a formal dinner party I've been to that had such wonderful food. The prime rib is lovely and done to perfection, and all the accompaniments are just as tasty." She leaned toward me, her eyes twinkling. "I would the name of your caterer."

I blushed. "I...my mothers and aunts and I made all of the food ourselves."

Cringing internally, I hoped Paul wouldn't be angry that I'd admitted to that, but I didn't want to lie to this nice lady. Besides, he'd been well aware that my family and I made all the food for tonight. He's even sampled some of the appetizers to make sure they were palatable, as he'd said.

"Why, I was expecting you to say you hired the finest chef in town because the quality of the food is beyond excellent," Mrs. Daniels, another client's wife, joined the conversation before she turned her head to Paul. "Not only is your wife beautiful and elegant, not only is she the perfect hostess, but she's also extremely talented in the kitchen. You, sir, are a lucky man."

Paul smiled at me adoringly like the skilled lawyer he was and gave the only response he could as he lifted his wine glass toward me in a small salute. "I consider myself a very fortunate man."

I wanted to scream at him, but instead I dropped my eyes demurely and murmured, "Thank you, ."

"How accomplished you are for one so young," Barbara said pointedly.

"Old enough to be accomplished to be married," Mrs. Adams said smoothly. "Mrs. Lowell is the type that was never in any danger of being on the shelf. No fears of spinsterhood for a woman this lovely."

Mrs. Adams laughed lightly, then pressed her fingertips against her bosom for a moment. "Oh, do forgive me, Miss Hall. That was so indelicate of me to mention ."

Barbara's face turned pink in fury, but having been brought up on Emily Post, she knew it would be extremely impolite to vent her fury at Mrs. Adams.

"I took no offense," Barbara replied icily through her smile. "I believe in waiting for what I want."

And I knew what she wanted. . Idly, I wondered if anyone else at the table was aware of her plans for Paul and Paul's plans for her.

After that sly dig about her marital status, Barbara bided her time for a few minutes, her attention on Paul, the two of them talking. She tried to monopolize his attention, but I noticed he kept trying to hear what I was saying to my dinner companions and his focus wasn't on Barbara the way she would have liked. He was probably trying to make sure I wasn't embarrassing him, especially since his boss was seated to my right. Mr. Hall was just as charming as his daughter, which is to say I found him cold and snobbish and unpleasant.

I was tempted to break out my repertoire of farm animal sounds I could mimic perfectly. Perhaps he'd enjoy the donkey bray since he was acting like a jackass with me.

"Tell me, Mrs. Lowell, did you graduate from high school?"

His tone told me he expected an answer of no.

"Yes, sir. I graduated from Rosary Academy."

"Sounds Catholic." I knew from my parents that Catholics hadn't been popular during the thirties, and it seemed Mr. Hall had carried some of that sentiment forward with him into the 1950s.

"Yes, sir, it was an all-girls Catholic school."

"So not a real education. Just learning how to be a wife and have babies?"

For some reason, I glanced at Paul, who happened to be looking at me and he frowned. "No, sir. The nuns gave us a thorough education."

This time, Mrs. Bradley, a circuit court judge's wife, jumped in. "You made it through a Catholic high school, Mrs. Lowell? My daughter went to the Academy of Our Lady for only one year before she was begging us to put her in public school. She said the nuns were the toughest teachers she'd ever had and she couldn't keep up with the difficult schoolwork. I'm impressed at your fortitude and intelligence, my dear."

"Thank you, Mrs. Bradley," I smiled at her gratefully and she gave me the tiniest little wink. "Doing the schoolwork was better than getting my knuckles rapped with the ruler."

"I would imagine it was," she smiled back at me.

Barbara decided it was time to come for me again.

"Mrs. Lowell, how have you been feeling?" she asked, full of so much insincere concern. "You must be worn out given this dinner party and your delicate condition."

"No, I'm fine, thank you."

"But aren't you getting near your due date?"

Before I could say anything, Paul spoke up and his voice was a bit sharper than it normally was. "No, she's not anywhere near having the baby."

Mrs. Adams rode to the rescue as if she was the Lone Ranger after Paul effectively stopped conversation around the table. I'm sure he didn't want anyone realizing we'd had to get married because we'd anticipated our vows. I'm not sure that term actually applied since we were never a couple nor did we ever have plans to get married, but it was the closest I could get to describing what happened.

"My dear, congratulations. I didn't realize you were expecting! How exciting for you and Mr. Lowell."

"Thank you," I said softly, smiling shyly, and once again my eyes darted to Paul who didn't look happy that our baby was a topic of discussion, but he quickly smoothed his face out as he accepted congratulations. Fortunately, my rolling pin was in the kitchen or I might have launched it at his head.



More congratulations followed, along with a toast by Mr. Adams, and Barbara was once again thwarted in her attempt to embarrass me.

The rest of the evening went smoothly, and everyone (except the Halls) raved about my desserts. By the time we said good bye to our last guests, I was exhausted but floating on all of the compliments I'd received.

Paul turned his attention to me. Did he thank me for the planning and preparation that went into the evening? Did he tell me he appreciated all of my efforts? Did he give me praise for how well the evening had gone? Did he compliment my cooking?

No. He looked at me and said, "I'm going to bed."

Undaunted, I followed him to our bedroom.

"Would you mind unzipping me?" I asked him right before he disappeared into the bathroom.

Not wanting to see the annoyed look I suspected was on his face, I turned my back to him.

"I didn't want the baby to be brought up tonight."

"If you'll recall, Miss Hall mentioned the baby first."

"A good hostess would have known how to divert the discussion away from a sensitive topic."

Divert? I could divert. I dropped my dress to the floor so I was in only my undergarments, then I turned back to my husband.

"Thank you for unzipping me."

For a long minute, he looked at me, and I forced myself not to hide behind my hands. Paul abruptly spun on his heel and walked into the bathroom, where he spent much longer than I thought necessary. When he came out, I was wearing an icy blue baby doll nightie, rubbing lotion into my legs, my hair a long, soft cloud down my back. No matter how angry I was, I had no option but to stick with my plan.

Little did I know, I was closer than I realized to carrying it out.



--- Chapter 6 (Veronica): Checkmate ---



The morning following the dinner party, I was busy tidying up the house and washing the last of the dishes. The ladies we'd hired to help had washed the crystal, silver and pots and pans, but I wanted to wash my china myself.

Paul was out on the golf course and he'd told me he'd move the furniture when he returned. When I'd asked him if he'd be able to do it on his own, he'd surprised me by smiling briefly and assuring me he could handle it by himself.

Close to noon, I answered a knock on the door and there was a delivery man from a local florist holding a small bouquet of flowers.

"For you, Mrs. Lowell."

"Oh, thank you," I said, excited since I'd never received flowers before. "Just a moment, please."

Taking the vase from him, I hurried to my pocketbook and took out two quarters from my pin money, and he expressed his appreciation for the tip.

Wondering if the flowers were from someone who attended last night's dinner, I took the small card from the envelope.









I felt tears prick my eyes even as I smiled. Reading it a few more times, I tucked her note into my pocketbook so I could take it out to read whenever I wanted. The praise from her touched my heart and made up for the lack of praise from Paul. Setting the flowers in the middle of the kitchen table, I finished drying my dishes and put them away in the china cabinet.

After fixing myself a grilled-cheese sandwich, I ran the vacuum, finishing just as Paul walked in the door, carrying his golf bag. His eyes immediately went to the kitchen table and he knew immediately that it wasn't one of the arrangements from last night.

"Where did you get the flowers?"

That was a tone I hadn't heard before, and I wasn't sure what to make of it.

"From an admirer," I teased. Mrs. Wilson's note was full of admiration so it wasn't a lie. Nothing I would have to confess this week to Father Joseph. He took an exceptionally hard line with lies and his penances made you rethink ever committing that particular sin again.

The golf bag was set down with a thump and Paul was suddenly in front of me.

"Who?" he demanded. That tone I knew. He wasn't happy.

"Why are you so angry?" I asked.

"Because my wife shouldn't have , especially not ones who send her flowers."

Did he really think I was such a hussy that I wouldn't respect my marriage vows? And it wasn't fidelity to our marriage that was in question. But...

"A man didn't send them," I said soothingly as I put both my hands on Paul's chest. "A friend of mine sent them because she was congratulating me on my first dinner party going well. That's all."

He looked down at my hands on his chest but didn't say anything.

"You must be hungry after playing golf," I said, tilting my head up to his and lightly running my hands over his chest. "Would you like some tomato soup and a grilled cheese sandwich? I could make that for you in a jiffy. For dinner tonight, I thought we'd have leftovers from the party."

His head bent slightly toward mine. "That sounds good, Veronica. Thank you." He hesitated a minute. "You probably need a break after all the work you had to do for the party, so leftovers will be fine."

That was practically an acknowledgment of my efforts, so I smiled slowly at him. "I'll get your lunch ready."

"I need to go take a quick shower," he said, and his voice was a bit hoarse. I had lunch made and on the table before he was out of the bathroom.

Over the next three weeks, I noticed a few things changing.

Paul came home for dinner every night, actually greeting me with a smile, often walking over for a quick peck on the lips.

His eyes stayed on me longer and longer every night in our bedroom while I rubbed lotion onto my arms and legs, and he didn't even try to hide it. I made sure to wait until he was in the room to put my night cream on my face and neck because he always seemed transfixed when I tipped my head back and trailed the tips of my fingers up and down my neck.

After watching me putting on my lotions, he was spending longer and longer in the bathroom every night, and I wondered if it was to avoid me. But I made sure that when he came out of the bathroom, I was brushing my hair because he seemed fascinated by that, too. Maybe Barbara should grow her short pixie cut out because, after bending over to brush the underside of my hair and then standing up to flip it back, a soft red cloud cascading over my shoulders and down my back, I definitely had Paul's attention.

When I kissed him goodbye in the mornings, he no longer turned his head so I got his cheek. We kissed briefly on the lips as I handed him his lunch. Sometimes, he'd even put a big hand at my lower back.

Lately, I'd been getting bolder to accelerate my plan. Once he was in bed, I'd lean over him, my pregnancy-heavy breasts on display in my low-cut nightie, and I'd whisper  before pressing my lips to his. In so doing, my breasts just happened to get smashed against his chest, and his eyes looked like they had the first and only night we'd been together -- very intense and full of desire. I also noticed our kisses began lasting longer.

Tonight, his hands grabbed my hips as I started to pull back.

"Veronica, don't," he said, holding me in place and his voice was hoarse again. He shifted us suddenly and carefully so I was on my back and he was hovering over me. My belly still wasn't that large, and my mother, her sisters, my sisters and my grandmother all laughed at me when I worried I wasn't that big yet, reassuring me that was the way women in our family carried babies.

"Wait until you hit seven months," my grandmother said, nodding. "you'll be showing."

My mother and aunts all nodded and laughed, remembering how their bellies suddenly popped out right around seven months.

So Paul was hovering over me now, and I knew without a doubt what he wanted as he pressed our lower halves together. This is what I'd been working toward, and if it sounded a bit calculated, I was fine with that because as a mother-to-be, you discovered you would do anything to protect your child, to secure its future. When your options were severely limited -- basically non-existent -- you made the best plan you could, moving your chess pieces until your opponent's king was cornered and he was unable to escape. He was out of moves, which meant his downfall was inevitable.

.

I focused on my husband, who was braced on his arms over me. Physically, Paul still appealed to me, so this part of my plan wouldn't be difficult and I was female enough to admit it. He was tall, broad-shouldered, muscular and movie-star handsome with his dark hair, blue eyes and flashing smile. I'd just lost sight of that given his personality and plans for me. But my husband was very good looking and his looks had drawn me to him that night at the club. His smile had made me say yes to things a good Catholic girl should have said no to.

But for tonight, for plan, for the last time I ever did this, I was going to allow myself to relish the wondrous feelings Paul could coax from my body. Apparently, I'd been one  of the lucky ones because I'd enjoyed it when I lost my innocence to him. I'd always been apprehensive about the act because I'd heard my married sisters and cousins talking about how uncomfortable it was the first time, and the discomfort prevented them from taking any pleasure in it.

"But then you get to the second time and you're off to the races!" Siobhan had said to great laughter.

Paul, however, had been gentle and had ensured my first time was pleasurable after the quick flash of pain.

Now, for the second and last time, I would experience that pleasure again and welcome it, feeling no shame.



"Veronica," Paul said, pushing my hair off my shoulder and kissing my neck. "Please. I've been going haywire for you for months."

I pulled his face down to mine and whispered, "Yes."

For now, I would simply enjoy.

With morning would come the reckoning and a side of me that Paul had never seen.



Author's Note: There will be another chapter of this story tonight when Veronica will fill Paul in on her plan. :)



--- Chapter 7 (Veronica): Meet Your Maker ---



I'd been sitting in the chair by the window since I'd gotten out of bed two hours ago, waiting for Paul to wake up. Not long after the sun rose, he began stirring and I wondered what his mood would be. Regretful? Neutral? After I got through talking, I was sure his mood, whatever it was, would plummet. I watched as he scrubbed his hands over his face and stretched, then looked around for me.

"We consummated our marriage last night," I said as soon as his eyes landed on me.

He looked over to see me sitting in the chair by the window, my eyes on him, and propped himself up on one elbow.

"I was there, Veronica. I know."

His tone wasn't the usual sharp, clipped, impatient tone I heard most of the time. This was vastly different. Amused, warm. Almost...affectionate.

It reminded me of something my mother and aunts used to make references to that I didn't quite understand at the time.



Then they'd laugh like crazy women.







I thought I knew what they were talking about, but I wasn't about to ask Paul for anything right now. I was about to him how things were going to be.

Standing, I walked over to my husband and looked down on him, my hand on my belly.

"Do you, Paul? Do you know that last night will prevent you from getting our marriage annulled on the grounds of nonconsummation?"

Predictably, his eyes widened as he realized I knew of his plans.

"I heard you and Barbara at the Christmas party. I hadn't just stepped outside seconds before the two of you came around the corner. I heard your whole darn conversation."

Paul sat up very quickly saying my name, but I ignored him.

"Yes, I heard the whole conversation. Everything. Those words were seared on my heart, Paul. How my getting pregnant was an accident, a horrible mistake. You said I was no one you'd want for your wife or even as the mother of your child, but you were stuck and had to do the right thing."

"Veronica, listen to me --"

"No, Paul. I've been listening to your words over and over in my head, so it's your turn to listen. You told your paramour that you needed a wife who could support your career, not hold you back. You said you wished every day that you weren't married to me and that you wished Barbara was your wife."

He threw back the covers and stood up, wearing only his pajama pants, holding me by the upper arms, careful not to hurt me. Even so, I twisted out of his grasp.

"You told her you were going to have our marriage annulled on the grounds that you entered into it with no plans to consummate it. All because I was going to hurt your career. You let her call me trashy and you said I was an oddball, nobody you would ever have considered marrying if I hadn't gotten caught."

I let him see how much those words had pained me; just for a minute I wanted him to see that I had not only heard him, I'd been hurt by him.

"Do you know why I sat by myself at those work parties you dragged me to? Because you couldn't be bothered to introduce me to anyone. You ignored me, you showed your contempt for me, so they all took their cues from you and they ignored me, too. I don't think I've ever felt so humiliated in all my life, and it was all thanks to you."

He was about to open his mouth again, but I shushed him.

"I married you in good faith, counselor, planning to be the very best wife I could. I knew our beginnings weren't ideal, but not every couple begins as a love match and they put in effort to make their marriage work. Despite you ridiculing me with your paramour, I showed you that I could be an asset to you when I threw that dinner party, and you didn't even have the decency to say thank you. Here I am, pregnant with your child, and I worked harder than you could imagine to make the evening perfect and you didn't even have the courtesy to acknowledge my efforts."

He actually looked guilty, ashamed.

"I may be trash from the wrong side of the tracks in your eyes, but I'd rather be from the wrong side if being from the right side means acting like you and your paramour and her father. They were both horribly insulting to me, and all you could do is glare at me. You should have told Barbara to keep her mouth shut, not me. You saw who displayed class that night and it wasn't your girlfriend."

"She's not --"

"You don't get to talk yet. Think of this as my closing argument."

He nodded, but I could tell the lawyer in him wanted to cross examine me.

"I thank people. I appreciate people's efforts. I don't look down on people because they don't happen to have a lot of money or they come from the wrong side of town. I would rather be loud and trashy than be mean and nasty like Barbara. And if she is your ideal, then you deserve each other."

His mouth opened and then snapped shut.

"And as a married woman, I would never kiss a man who wasn't my husband. I uphold my vows. I believe in the sanctity of marriage. Which brings me to my first point. Your only option to get rid of me now is divorce, and I want you to hear me clearly: I will allow you to divorce me. Marriage is forever, and I married you with that expectation, so you remain married to me. You don't get to divorce me because you think you deserve better. The truth is, I deserve much better than you, but I'm resigned to being stuck with you because I take my vows seriously. I'll make the best of the hand I've been dealt."

"Veronica, I need to say --"

"Quiet. I'm not done. Whether you like it or not, and you've made it clear you don't like it, I'm pregnant with your child. You aren't going to divorce me and leave your child while you create another family with your Barbara. If you try, my family and I will show up at your office every day, causing such a commotion that you'll eventually be fired. And we'll follow you to any job you get after that and drag your reputation and name through the mud. You know my entire family is as trashy as I am, so they don't mind causing a ruckus. As a lawyer, you know you need a reason to divorce and you don't have one! But I do -- adultery."

"I've never --"

"You kissed her at the Christmas party!"

"That was it, Veronica. Since we got married, I haven't been with another woman. I kissed her at the Christmas party."

"How many other kisses did I miss?"

"None. That was the only one."

"Still one too many. Regardless of how you feel about the hussy, I will remain your wife and our child will be your only child. I won't have you forgetting about our baby because her mother happens to come from an undesirable part of town. You have responsibilities, counselor, and  if you'll run away from them and start another family with someone else simply because I'm not your dream wife."

"Veronica."

I stopped him with a glare.

"Maybe you should spend some time with the men in my family. They may be loud and rough around the edges, and definitely not as educated as you, but they're who know what it means to be and take care of their wives and children. Traits you're sorely lacking despite your degrees and distinctions."

I braced myself for the next part, which could backfire miserably on me. I just had to trust my mother and my aunts who were usually pretty good with advice.





And then they'd all cackle like the hens my father and uncles called them.

So, here was the greatest gamble I was about to take, and I was banking on the contrariness of men. Tell them they have something, and it becomes coveted. Tell them they have something, and they lose interest.

"I'd like to thank you for explaining something to me last night."

"What are you talking about?" Paul was confused.

"Maybe isn't the right word. Perhaps  would be more accurate."

"I still don't understand, Veronica."

"Well, I never understood how wives could calmly look the other way when their husbands took mistresses. And then last night made me realize why they didn't care, and that's because it was a to the wives not having to put up with all that frantic grunting and fumbling around aimlessly. Quite frankly, it felt like just another chore to see to, and not a fun one at that. I get more satisfaction from dusting."

His jaw clenched.

"You enjoyed last night. Don't tell me you didn't, Veronica."

I looked at him as if I pitied him.

"My mother never explained what happened between a man and a wife in the bedroom. The only advice she gave me was to pretend it was good because the suffering and tedium ended faster that way. So I did, and she was absolutely right!"

That was an outright lie. My mother and aunts had told me, with waggling eyebrows, winks and smirks, that what happened between a husband and wife in the bedroom was , but Paul didn't need to know that. Let him think his prowess in the bedroom was not even close to magnificent.

Smiling at him patronizingly, I kept a straight face as I continued to attack his wee...ego.

"I can't even tell you what relief I felt when it was over. The best I could say about it was I used the time wisely and made my shopping list for today, thought about the chores I needed to get done and a couple of errands I had to run -- I forgot to pick up your dry cleaning, I realized -- so it wasn't a complete waste of time. But I find I was... I'm not sure if that's the correct word or perhaps  would be more accurate, but I think you understand what I'm trying to say about the dismal experience. Anyway, feel free to subject Barbara to that misery because last night was more than enough for me. I almost think I'd rather go to the dentist to have a tooth pulled than endure that dreariness again."

Paul looked affronted, as if he were about to explode, proving once again that the hens knew their stuff when it came to men.

"So we're clear: you will not be divorcing me, but you're free to keep Barbara as your paramour because I would look on that as a personal favor to avoid the bedroom disappointment, but mistress is  she will ever be. She will be your wife. I will be your wife until the day you die, and if you ever try to divorce me or forget about our child, I'm not above hastening the day you meet your Maker. Have I made myself clear?"

"You've certainly made your case."

"Anything you need to say?"

"Not at this point," he said, watching me closely.

I imagined, in the days ahead when he realized how much his life was changing in other ways I hadn't yet spelled out for him, he'd have a lot to say.





--- Chapter 8 (Veronica): Another Dinner Party ---



After I'd explained everything to Paul and he said he didn't have anything to say right then, I figured that would be it. He had nothing to say because he would have a wife and child at home and Barbara as a girlfriend. He would just have to resign himself to never being able to marry her.

"Do you have anything left to say, Veronica?" he'd asked, and it wasn't said nastily.

"No, I covered everything."

"We'll talk later, after I gather my thoughts," he'd said and then he'd gone to shower.

While he was in there, I began taking his suits from the closet and carrying them to our guest bedroom where I laid them on the bed. He could put them away.

Once the closet was emptied of his things, I began with his dresser. I'd just picked up a stack of shirts when he came out of the bathroom wearing only a towel around his waist. Looking down, I thought how odd it was that, as his wife, I didn't really have the right to look at him.

Pretty surprising given the previous night, but since this was after our talk, I couldn't think about that.

"What are you doing?" he asked.

"I should think it'd be obvious what I'm doing, counselor. I'm moving you into the guest bedroom."

"No, Veronica --"

"That's another thing. Don't call me Veronica any more. I'm sure you think it sounds somewhat classier than my nickname, but I prefer to be called Roni."

", you're my wife and I'm not sleeping in another bedroom."

Laughing lightly, I shook my head at him. "I have never been your wife."

"You felt like my wife last night." He walked closer to me. "You definitely felt like my wife."

I ignored that because I wasn't sure why he was saying that. Especially in that extra low voice. He had to be frosted after I'd rattled his cage so badly.

"What I should have felt like was a trap you'd fallen into, given your plans for annulling our marriage," I snapped at him.

"A trap I'd ." He had the nerve to smile at me. "If that was a , I didn't mind falling into it, Roni."

As his meaning sunk in, I blushed, feeling the heat crab walk up my neck and face. Who was this man with such a wicked sense of humor?

"You're moving into the guest bedroom," I said firmly.

"And if I refuse?"

"Then I'll move into the guest room," I said, my hand going to my belly. The flutters had become kicks over the last few weeks, and I loved each one.

"I'll move," he said easily, his eyes on my hand that was rubbing the spot where the baby was kicking. "Temporarily."

He seemed to be heavily implying .

Shoving the stack of shirts into his hands, I inclined my head toward his dresser.

"You'll need to finish emptying that."

"Righto," he said and walked out of our room. Still wearing just a towel. I hurried into the kitchen so I wouldn't be in the room when he came back.

Because I knew what was under that towel and I didn't want it anywhere near me.



"Ma, did you ever have to make a point with Dad?"

It was Sunday, and I'd taken the cross town bus home after I went to early mass. All of my family went to mass on Saturday evening, and I missed sharing a meal with everyone after the service. But since Paul refused to accompany me and I didn't want to answer questions from all of my family about where my husband was, I no longer went.

Today, my mom, two of my aunts and I were sitting around the kitchen table drinking coffee and having crumb cake that was still warm from the oven. Ma, Aunt Laoise and Aunt Catriona looked at each other and started cackling like hens. Dad, coming in to get a beer, asked what was so funny.

"Your daughter asked if I ever had to make a point with you."

"Never you mind," he said, stabbing his finger at Ma. "It's not a story that bears repeating and not a story for young ears."

In his mind, I would always be his sweet, innocent girl, pregnant belly from a huge lapse in judgment notwithstanding. He left the kitchen with my mother and aunts laughing even harder.

"What happened?" I asked curiously.

"Your ma's no teacher," my Aunt Catriona chuckled, "but she taught Patrick a lesson he never forgot."

More hen cackling.

"Ma, you have to tell me!"

"We'd been married just two months," she began. "And your father decided he was going to start going to the pub every single night after work with his friends, have a pint or two, play some darts before coming home to me."

"And mind you, this pub was where his old girlfriend, Darcy, worked," Aunt Catriona added.

"She still wanted Patrick, you'll never convince me otherwise," Aunt Laoise said. "And she didn't care that he was circled. She was always fast, that one."

"He started eating dinner there, too. Wasting good money on food when I was at home with dinner getting cold, night after night."

"Ma, was he cheating on you?" I asked softly.

"The man's still alive, isn't he?"

So, no, he hadn't been cheating.

"Just missing his boys and proving he was still his own man, and I'm sure he didn't mind a pretty barmaid flirting with him." She looked at me. "I minded."

"So what'd you do?"

"I walked into the pub one Friday night after I'd had enough and had told him so many times, and sure enough, that hussy was flirting with him to beat the band. So I dropped off the suitcase I'd packed for your father and announced, very loudly, that I was done with him and Darcy was welcome to a man who had to hide out at the pub every night since he couldn't  at home because he was sufferin' from a , so to speak."

The hens were practically snorting, and I could just picture my mother announcing this to the pub.

"What happened?"

"I went to Aunt Laoise's apartment since her husband was out of town for a week. Your father was driving himself crazy trying to find me since no one in my family would tell him where I was. He had to do everything for himself. When he finally found me, he begged me on his knees to come home and promised he'd be home every night unless we went out together."

"And he kept the promise?"

"He sure did. It took years for his mates to stop calling him , so he didn't want to go through that again."

"Sometimes, you have to help them see the light," Aunt Catriona said. "See that they can't take you for granted. Put it in terms they can understand."

Dad walked into the kitchen again, and the four of us began laughing uncontrollably.



"I'm home," Paul called out as he walked into the house, briefcase in hand, his tie loosened. He spotted me sitting on the couch with a magazine open. "How was your day?"

"Fine," I said, and although he gave me a look, he didn't ask anything else. He was probably thinking he didn't want to hear about laundry and house cleaning.

I was surprised he was talking to me after he'd walked downstairs this morning to find me eating my breakfast.





















Now he was coming home to another surprise.

"What's for dinner?"

Honestly, the next sentence hurt to say as much as the conversation this morning. I'd been raised that women feed their men -- they fed them before they headed out to work, handed them a hearty lunch to take with them and fed them when they came home after working all day to provide for their wives and families. I'd seen it in action every single day of my life, and as soon as I'd become old enough, I helped ma and my sisters in the kitchen.



To say feeding and caring for my husband was ingrained in me was an understatement. So I felt as if I was strangling a bit as I uttered my next words. (I also wondered if I needed to confess this to Father Joseph and what his penance would be for a grave sin like this.)

"Whatever you feel like making for yourself."

Paul looked at me with those assessing blue eyes for a long time, his lawyer face firmly in place.

"Have you eaten?"

question I hadn't been expecting. If anything, I thought Paul would get angry.

"Yes," I said. I'd made myself some Campbell's mushroom soup and had some toast with it. "Why?"

He set his briefcase down. "I would have taken you out or made you something."

"Suddenly you aren't embarrassed of me? You never offered to take me out before."

He didn't respond. We both knew I was right.

Later that week, I heard Paul moving around in his room. He found me a few minutes later at the kitchen sink, where I was having a glass of milk mixed with chocolate powder. I had a glass every night before I went to bed.

"Roni, did you pick up my dry cleaning today like I asked? I need my blue suit for court tomorrow."

"No."

"I needed that suit!"

"You have others."

"I also don't have any white dress shirts clean."

"Wear another color."

"Roni, I need to present myself a certain way in court."

"How unfortunate you waited until the last minute to make sure you had everything."

"I only have two pairs of clean boxer shorts left in the drawer."

"The washer's in the basement."

He looked like he wanted to say something, but he stopped himself.

"Roni, would you please wash my clothes tomorrow?"

"Since you asked so nicely...no."

I'd seen Paul angry before, but oddly enough, he wasn't angry now. Frustrated, yes. But not mad.

"You see, counselor, all the things you're asking for are things a wife would happily do for her husband. But you've always looked at me as an inconvenience, not as a wife. So, I've become the inconvenience that you've always treated me as."

I knew this couldn't last forever, that I was walking a fine line here, but I needed him to make the next move. After all, he'd told me we'd talk later. We would never be friends and lovers, but I hoped we could become partners once he realized that I brought just as much to this marriage as he did and I had value as his wife. He didn't love me, but he could respect me.

Over the next two weeks, I didn't cook for Paul, do his laundry, wash his dishes or pick up his dry cleaning. For a man who had a wife, he wasn't benefitting from it in any way. We barely talked, but Paul seemed to be thinking a great deal about something, and I caught him watching me at odd moments.

At the end of those two weeks, we did talk, but it wasn't the discussion I'd been expecting. Paul came home, sat beside me on the couch and dropped his bomb.

"Roni, my boss has asked me to host another dinner party in two weeks."

Neither one of us had any idea that the dinner party would change the course of our future.



--- Chapter 9 (Paul): Attention ---



The first time I saw Veronica was at a nightclub. A friend and I, wanting to let loose, had gone to a less desirable part of town where we could be anonymous and get our kicks. The second we'd walked into the nightclub, I saw her. You couldn't  see her. She was the brightest woman in the room with that shocking red hair, a loud, sexy dress, a classy chassis and a vibrant smile that never quit. She was brazen and bold, and I'd watched her for twenty minutes before approaching her.

"Come on, snake, let's rattle," I'd said, and she'd thrown back her head, laughing, and taken my hand. As we danced together, I felt an energy I'd never felt before rocket into my body.

What happened after was inevitable. I kissed her outside the nightclub and took her to a motel, where I'd been surprised to discover the bold, forward woman had been a virgin. After, she told me she had to be home by midnight, so I drove her to her parents' and thought that would be that.

But the following week, I'd gone back to that club. She'd approached me and asked me to dance, but I'd already determined Veronica was a complication I didn't need in my life so although we danced, there was no repeat of taking her to a motel. She had no place in my life permanently because she was too brazen to make a good lawyer's wife.

Barbara, on the other hand, would make the perfect lawyer's wife with her social standing and connections. We'd been together a couple of years, and I'd met her at the firm when she came in to have lunch with her father, one of the firm's founding partners. A woman like Barbara would help advance my career, not be a hindrance.

She'd broken up with me because I didn't want to get married for another year or two until I was more established at my firm, and she was tired of waiting. So the week she took off for a European tour to teach me what I was missing (), I went to the nightclub and changed the trajectory of my life like a rocket going way off course.

Two months later, I'd continued to go to that nightclub to dance with Veronica when she pulled me outside to tell me she was in the family way. I had not one good feeling about her news but I knew two things: she wasn't lying about me being the father and I had to marry her and temporarily ruin my life. Considering I was a lawyer and liked hard evidence as proof of something, my belief in Veronica's honesty was surprising. But after examining witness after witness in court, I knew when someone was telling the truth.

So I told her I'd marry her in a civil ceremony, and I'd also told her I was Methodist. I would never let her know that I'd been raised Catholic and then later I'd been received into the Episcopal church. From a career standpoint, the Anglican church historically had wealthier congregants from higher social classes, which meant I had more chances at making better connections as a young lawyer on the rise.

Even though I'd married Veronica, I had my escape plan in place. Annul the marriage after the baby was born, set them up in an apartment, pay their living expenses and get back to my plan of marrying Barbara so I could . It'd been the last thing my father had said to me.



Mom had died when I was a baby, and Dad had done his best. He was a mechanic and he saved every penny he could so I could go to college. He died in my senior year of high school, and I sold the house and socked away that money. He'd had enough saved to put me through college and law school, and when I'd joined the law firm, I'd bought a modest home in a good neighborhood.

I'd learned enough to pass myself off as someone from a more well-to-do background, carefully avoiding questions about where I'd been raised. Barbara would have helped with polishing my image, but instead, I'd made a horrible mistake named Veronica. Trying to explain that to Barbara at the Christmas party her father threw to welcome her back from Europe had been ugly.

Discovering so much later that Veronica had heard that conversation had explained so much of her behavior. Why she hadn't had much of a reaction that night when she knew Barbara and I had kissed. Why she had been especially sweet after that night. Why she started driving me crazy with the lotion routine every night and the short, silky nighties that made me spend way too long in the bathroom jerking off.

But the turning point had come the night of the dinner party. Veronica had looked like a glamour girl, the food had been perfect and the house looked like something out of a movie set. In my apprehension about the night, I'd told her only that she looked nice when I got home and then advised her not to say much. When Barbara arrived with my boss, knowing she wouldn't like being in Veronica's shadow, I'd told her she looked beautiful. That hadn't been enough.

Although I'd been nervous my wife would make a social faux pas, it was Barbara who'd surprised me with her behavior and what she'd said. I'd never seen her go after someone like she'd gone after my wife, and I was about to flip my lid. I kept looking at Veronica, hoping she wouldn't take the bait, and I knew my face was betraying my anger at Barbara.

The women who had intervened had saved me from making a scene, and I'd been grateful. They'd shut down Barbara, and after that, I couldn't wait for the night to end. I needed to clear my head and reevaluate every last thing in my life.

So I'd told Veronica I was going to bed, my mind needing to rearrange everything I had planned. Veronica had shown me that she was not only an asset, but she was a natural hostess, and that was mixing together with the unbelievable attraction I'd already had for her. All of the guests except my boss and Barbara had praised the dinner and my wife, and for the first time since we'd been married, I felt pride in Veronica and disappointment in myself.

That disappointment had been driven home the next day when I'd reacted badly to thinking she'd received flowers from an admirer. I hadn't liked the idea, and I'd felt both a burst of jealousy and a possessiveness I'd never felt before in my life.

That had started it, and in the weeks following the dinner party, I found myself wondering what it would be like if our marriage was real. To test the waters, I began changing my habits, becoming more affectionate with Veronica, being home more, trying to make our marriage a reality. My wife had been working herself under my skin, and I'd mistakenly thought it was mutual.

Until the morning after I'd made love to my wife and she proceeded to dismantle me like the most skilled lawyer destroying a defendant on the stand. Her attack had been well planned and thought out, and I'd admired her for it, feeling pride that she'd played the long game with such skill. I didn't respond to her then, but I was marshaling my arguments and going along with whatever she had planned for me.

When she stopped doing anything for me and told me I'd treated her like a convenience, I'd had to agree. A man never realized what his wife did for him until she stopped doing it. I'd gotten accustomed to Roni taking care of absolutely everything and she'd yanked it all away from me showing what a brilliant and brave strategist she was.

Before I could execute my own plan to show her we could work this out and what I wanted to do for her to underscore my intentions, my boss asked me to host another dinner party, and I worried that Barbara was behind the request for some nefarious purpose. Surprisingly, Roni had agreed.

"This affects your livelihood, which affects our family. Of course I'll help," she'd said. And she'd arranged everything. I hadn't asked to see the menu or the seating chart, knowing from the first dinner party that she could handle every last detail. I'd hurried in from work the night of the party, changing my suit, managing to be ready just as the doorbell rang announcing our first guests.

As more guests began arriving, I finally noticed the dining room table and took my wife aside for a moment.

"Roni," I said quietly, "there are fourteen place settings."

"Yes," she said. "I invited two people."

"This is supposed to be only the senior partners and local judges tonight."

"It'll be fine, counselor. Mrs. Wilson saw the guest list and thought her husband would enjoy the company, so I invited them because she's been so kind to me."

"Roni, next time, please ask."

My voice was strained because I'd been told that this dinner party could lead to me making partner, but I hadn't told Roni because I didn't want her to feel the same pressure I was.

"Mrs. Wilson is lovely and she assured me she and her husband would be a welcome addition," she told me, completely unconcerned with what she'd done. "She suggested I make them the guests of honor for reasons she'd explain later if necessary, and she even worked out the seating chart."

It was too late to uninvite them, and I could only hope whoever these guests were, I wouldn't lose my promotion or my job.

"Oh, that must be the Wilsons now. They're the only ones not here yet," Roni said when she heard the doorbell and hurried to the foyer. I was a few steps behind as the couple walked in to Roni's warm welcome and immediately, every person in the room came to attention and stopped talking.

The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States had just entered our house with his wife.



--- Chapter 10 (Veronica): The Real Fun ---



When I saw the reaction of everyone in the room, for a minute I thought I'd made a horrible mistake somehow by inviting the Wilsons. Everyone had stopped talking, and they were all staring at the Wilsons as if some zoo animals had walked in. I swallowed hard, wondering how this could possibly have gone so bad so quickly.

The morning Mrs. Wilson had come over to the house for her dress fitting, I'd been telling her about the next dinner party Paul had told me about the previous night.

"It's all judges and the senior partners from the law firm and us. I know there was one judge at the party last time, but it's all judges now, so I'm feeling a bit nervous."

"Judges still put on their pants one leg at a time, just like everyone else," she said with an encouraging smile, running her hand over the dress neckline. "This is going to be the most beautiful, elegant dress I've ever owned, dear girl. And if I may say so, the deep violet looks good with my coloring. It almost makes me resigned to my gray hair."

"Thank you," I said, so pleased at her compliment I'd forgotten my nervousness.

"Will that Barbara Hall be attending the dinner party again? I heard from my friends she was stirring things up at the last dinner party."

"She is on the guest list, yes." .

"May I see the list? Would you mind sharing it with me?"

"Certainly," I said and went off to get her the list. She looked it over and nodded before she handed it back to me, but I could tell she was thinking.

We finished her fitting and I helped her out of the dress so she wouldn't get poked with the pins. Once she was back in her own dress, we had some coffee and the coffeecake I'd made for her visit.

"Veronica, I would like to ask you something."

"Of course," I looked at her curiously because she seemed so serious.

"My husband will be home that week of your dinner party -- I've mentioned that he's often away for business -- and I would love for you to meet him. He knows several of the dinner guests, and I think he'd have such a good time. I realize how terribly rude it is of me to ask, but would you mind adding us to the guest list?"

I didn't even have to think. I wasn't sure if adding guests to a dinner party was unacceptable, but I thought of how condescending Paul's boss was and decided he would just have to deal with two additional guests he didn't approve.

"Of course. I'd be delighted to have you and Mr. Wilson as our guests."

"He knows quite a few lawyers and judges, so he'll have no trouble being accepted into this gathering," she assured me. "In fact, I think he'll quite enjoy all these legal minds. He loves to debate the law."

Maybe her husband was a law professor if he knew so many lawyers and judges, so I could see him being welcomed by all the learned minds.

"I have to confess, I'm so relieved you'll be there," I said. "The ladies who were so kind to me last time weren't on the list Paul's boss provided."

"I wouldn't be surprised if Miss Hall put together this list," she said briskly. "I know the couples and all the wives are of Miss Hall's ilk, shall we say."

"Then I'm doubly glad you'll be there."

"Seat my husband at your right and I'll be at your husband's right," she said. "I'll explain later if I need to, but I need you to trust me, dear girl. In fact, I'll be happy to do the seating chart. Miss Hall may not be aware of the dirty linen many of the guests have. Fortunately, I am because I have a long memory and I feel it may be time for a thorough washing."

Her smile curved a bit wickedly.

"I just need you to finish this dress for the dinner party. I'll handle the menu and other details."

"Are you sure you want to wear my dress? I promise I'll understand if you don't."

"Darling, if you wear a dress you designed and I do, too, we'll be the best dressed women at the party, no question about it. You should finish that sage green one you showed me. It'll be perfect for you and it'll look just lovely with your glorious hair."

The dress was almost done. "I'll be able to finish both of these in the next few days."

"Wonderful! Roni, have you ever considered making dresses for other women and selling them?"

I admitted I had, so we talked about that for a few minutes, and I also confessed I'd thought about making baby doll nighties, nightgowns and peignoir sets.

"I think that all sounds tremendous, my dear. We need to talk more about this when we have your next dinner party behind us."

"I'd love to," I said, feeling as if I still needed a way to support myself and my baby just in case.

"One more thing, Roni: I think it will be best if you don't tell Paul you've invited two extra guests. Some men get so fussed over what amounts to nothing. Think of it as a good surprise you have planned for him."

I thought of Paul and Barbara kissing and making their plans, I thought of the life I would have led as a single mother and the life my child would have led and thought a little surprise might be in order. Besides, I needed at least one ally in the room with me, especially if the other women invited were like Barbara.

"I won't say a word."

On the evening of the dinner party, Barbara and her father were the first ones to arrive, and while Paul was talking with his boss at the bar, Barbara looked me over.

"I feel so overdressed now," she said softly, eyes narrowed on my sage green dress. "I didn't realize this was a casual dinner party."



"I love the dress you're wearing, Miss Hall. I admired it at the first dinner party, too."

Her face clouded up angrily. "It's not the same --"

"I thought those pearls you're wearing were lovely when I saw them at the five-and-dime last week."

Her face reddened, but I was saved from her retort by more guests arriving.

"Excuse me, please," I said, sweet as pie.

All the guests except the Wilsons had arrived when Paul pulled me aside as he realized there were two extra place settings on the dining room table. He'd questioned me as to what I'd done, and I saw the worry in his eyes. The doorbell ringing allowed me to walk away from his concerned expression, even though I knew we'd be talking about it later.

Which brought us to this frozen moment, where no one was talking and no one was moving. Paul wasn't going to be happy that the two people I'd invited had brought the party to a screeching halt.

Barbara's father was the first to recover.

"Mr. Chief Justice, sir, it's an honor and pleasure to meet you," Paul's boss held his hand out, a bright smile on his face as he introduced himself. "I'm so glad you were able to make it tonight."



Mrs. Wilson allowed Mr. Hall to shake her hand.

"A lawyer a clairvoyant," she said with that wicked smile. "I'm impressed since no one knew we were coming except Mrs. Lowell. She invited us as a surprise."

My head was reeling from the set down. In two sentences, she declared him to be a pretender and made it clear that they were here at my behest. I felt Paul's eyes on me as Barbara came up next and greeted Mr. Wilson and Mrs. Wilson.

Before anyone else could introduce themselves, Mrs. Wilson turned her husband toward Paul, subtly turning her back to Barbara.

"And this is dear Roni's husband, Emmett, the up-and-coming lawyer I was telling you about."

Paul shook his hand and absolutely preened like a rooster when Mr. Wilson said he'd heard about some big case Paul had won recently.

Eventually, the other men surrounded Paul and Mr. Wilson, while the women gathered around Mrs. Wilson. Mrs. Wilson kept me near her, despite Barbara's efforts to insinuate herself between us, and it was made very clear to all that I was Mrs. Wilson's .

So the cocktail hour before dinner was extremely pleasant and quite entertaining as Barbara was politely ignored despite her attempts to steal the spotlight from me.

However, when we sat down to dinner together was when the real fun began.



--- Chapter 11 (Veronica): I Can't Say The Same ---



It began almost immediately. The help I'd hired had just served the last plate and we ate the first few bites in silence.

Without trying to appear as if I was watching her, I kept my eye on Barbara, who was sitting across and one place down from Mrs. Wilson. If you're paying to read this story, it's been stolen from groveltohea on wattpad. Go there to read paul and veronica for free. That was the only way I noticed she'd given a small nod to one of her friends, Mrs. Whitney.

"Mrs. Lowell, beef stroganoff is such an choice for a dinner party," she began, her tone indicating it was anything but interesting and verging on embarrassing.

"Isn't it lovely?" Mrs. Wilson asked with innocent enthusiasm. "Mrs. Lowell was gracious enough to let me suggest this dish because it's my husband's favorite, and I knew how much he'd enjoy her exquisite take on this meal."

"It's absolutely delicious," the Chief Justice said, aiming a smile at me.

Mrs. Whitney looked subdued, but Mrs. Wilson wasn't done with teaching her that I was not to be trifled with.

"By the way, Mrs. Whitney, I was terribly sorry to hear about your last dinner party and that incident with the roast," Mrs. Wilson expressed her sympathy. "I'm sure your guests were nothing but gracious about the lack of a main course, as all guests would be."

Mrs. Whitney turned a bit red, but she responded politely though she was stiff as a board. "Yes, they were quite kind."

"Of course they were. After all, how were you to anticipate your dog getting ahold of it? Good manners dictate being nothing but gracious to one's hostess, wouldn't you agree?"

"Yes, I quite agree, Mrs. Wilson," she said, humbled.

With that conversation over, the side conversations began again, and I furtively watched Barbara nod at some of her other friends. If you're reading paul and veronica anywhere but wattpad, it's been stolen from the author groveltohea. Go to wattpad to read it for free. However, they either ignored her prompting after what happened to Mrs. Whitney, or they shook their heads at her just a bit. Which meant Barbara had to take matters into her own hands.

"I adore your dress, Mrs. Wilson. I noticed it the moment you walked in."

"Thank you. It's by a young designer I just discovered who made this for me in between planning and hosting dinner parties for her husband."

"Oh, I'm surprised if she has a husband who needs her to plan dinner parties that she would be unwisely using her time sewing dresses."

"Whyever not?" Mrs. Wilson asked.

"Well, no husband who's any kind of husband would want his wife working, especially if they have any social standing. Maybe the poor, less fortunate wives work, but that's because their husbands can't afford to support them."

Mrs. Wilson laughed softly and looked down the table at her husband. "Emmett, darling, apparently you're no husband who's any kind of husband since you don't have a problem with me working. Perhaps we should look into getting you a job that allows you to support me."

The whole table went silent and still. My mind was racing through the pages of Emily Post's etiquette book for salvaging a situation like this, but Mrs. Wilson shot me a look and her eyes were twinkling.

Barbara looked a bit pale and tried to recover, her gaze darting around the room. Unfortunately, there were no hills to lift her eyes to because that was the only possible place at the moment help could have come from. No one at the table was going to wade in and help Barbara extricate herself from this mess.

"Of course...of course charity work is fine, Mrs. Wilson. I believe those of us who are more fortunately situated be helping the poor and needy. I was referring only to a husband having a problem with his wife working at an actual job."

"Mrs. Hall --" Mrs. Wilson said and I knew it was deliberate. She was the consummate society matron and would never mistake a  for a . However, Barbara was unaware of this.

"It's Miss," Barbara corrected her politely with only the tiniest edge to her voice. Maybe she didn't like being reminded of her unmarried status.

Mrs. Wilson's hand fluttered to her chest.

"My sincerest apologies for making such a gauche error. I assumed you were speaking from a place of knowledge and authority about husbands."

Oh, Barbara felt that one. Her face looked pinched for a moment before she smoothed it out.

"However, as I was saying," Mrs. Wilson continued, "I don't believe anyone could look at my husband and think he was any less of a provider or a husband just because I have always worked throughout our marriage. You be relieved to know, Hall, that in addition to working, I still find time to sit on the boards of and involve myself in many charitable endeavors."

"You are a paragon of efficiency, darling," Emmett nodded proudly at his wife. "I've often thought if I could coax you to Washington more often, the District would be running more efficiently and at full capacity within a week."

"You know I only venture there when I must," she smiled fondly at her husband before turning to the table at large. "I find it to be exhausting with the number of apple polishers and sycophants moving around D.C. I have no time for those trying to so obviously curry favor with me just because I happen to be married to an important man. I much prefer our home here in town."

Emmett winked at his wife. "Tell them what you do, Helen."

"I'm a regional manager for Avon," she said. "I began selling Avon when my children were very young and was eventually promoted to regional manager."

"My wife is being modest by making it sound effortless, but there was a great deal of work involved to attain that position," Emmett said, and you could hear the pride in his voice. "She also scouts models for Avon's ad campaigns and her region is first in the state for sales."

"How very accomplished of you," Barbara's father said, proving apple polishers weren't just in Washington.

I quickly asked if Mr. Wilson would like seconds since his plate was empty.

"I apologize, but I don't know the proper way to address you, Mr. Chief Justice Wilson. Sir."

He smiled at me like my grandfather did, kindly, indulgently.

"The proper way is Mr. Chief Justice," he explained, "but as my wife's close friend, I think you should call me Emmett, if you'll give me leave to call you Roni."

My smile was huge. This man, who had every reason to be haughty and superior, was just as nice and as real as his wife.

"I'd be honored," I said, and he patted my hand.

Barbara had heard that exchange and her face turned a very unbecoming shade of red. Some people wore fury well; Barbara was not one of them.

Emmett and anyone else who wanted seconds were quickly served another helping, and Barbara, still trying to save face, attempted to restart her conversation with Mrs. Wilson.

"Would you be willing to share the name of your designer with us?" she asked Mrs. Wilson. "I have a special fondness for designer gowns, and yours is so elegant and sophisticated."

"I'm not the only one at the table tonight wearing one of her creations. Mrs. Lowell is as well."

Barbara stiffly turned her head toward me. "Oh, yes, I noticed your dress the minute I walked in and admired it."

"At first I was afraid it was a bit too for a formal dinner party," I said pointedly to Barbara, "but Mrs. Wilson assured me it would be perfect for tonight, and I trust  judgment completely."

"My dear girl," Mrs. Wilson said, "That dress is the epitome of elegance and refinement, and I won't let anyone say otherwise."

"I would love to have access to this exclusive designer who created such stunning dresses," Barbara said and the other women agreed.

Mrs. Wilson's smile was wide and gracefully waved her hand toward me.

"Look no further than our lovely hostess for the evening. My dear friend is an absolute magician with a needle and thread; in fact, I've never seen any woman with a better eye for design. The next time Emmett needs me in Washington for a gala, I'm going to wear a dress Mrs. Lowell designs for me."

At that announcement, Barbara looked as if she smelled something rotten, while everyone else murmured praise for my dresses. I could feel Paul's eyes on me, but I refused to look at him.

"I'm trying to talk Mrs. Lowell into making gowns for my friends," Mrs. Wilson was saying. "I was showing off this dress to them and now she already has a list of customers as long as my arm if she agrees."

Conversation among the women was subdued after that, giving the men a chance to talk trials and the law as we had dessert and coffee. We eventually moved into the living room where the men continued their conversations and the women begged Mrs. Wilson for stories about the First Lady, the White House, Washington parties and the social scene. Barbara barely said a word as Mrs. Wilson held court, and I made a point of smoothing the skirt of my dress every time she glared my way.

Eventually all of our guests left, and I was sorry to see them go because I could only imagine what Paul was going to have to say.

"It was an honor to meet both of you. Thank you for coming tonight," Paul said to them, shaking Emmett's hand and then Mrs. Wilson's when she offered it to him. They had lined up at the door with us, graciously saying good night to all the guests because everyone wanted one last word with them...and to hand Emmett their business cards.

"It was our pleasure. There was no way I was going to leave Mrs. Lowell to handle all of those by herself," Mrs. Wilson said frankly, then she gave Paul a pointed look. "I would never leave someone I care about at their mercy."

"I appreciate the support you've given Roni," Paul said sincerely.

Mrs. Wilson's look went from pointed to deadly. "Given that you're her husband, it's a shame I can't say the same about you."





Some fun facts. In 1955, the Chief Justice's annual salary was $35,500. For comparison's sake, the average annual salary for men at the time was $3,400 (for women it was $1,100.) The average lawyer's salary was  about $8,000-$10,000-ish, although estimates vary.

You may notice Roni referenced a Bible quote from Psalm 121,

Yes, if you read , Mrs. Wilson was Susan's regional manager and the one who recruited her to be a model for the Avon fall campaign. (Chapter 10, if you're wondering.)



--- Chapter 12 (Paul): The Variable ---



I was probably the only boy in my class whose father didn't resort to corporal punishment for his son's misdeeds, so I wasn't accustomed to being hit -- except for those schoolyard fights where I defended myself while teaching a lesson to the instigator not to mess with me.

But I felt as if Mrs. Wilson had punched me in the face with that parting shot of hers that would have made Rocky Marciano proud.

It was delivered with precision for maximum impact.

And well deserved. So deserved.

When she struck me with her words, so many truths walloped me at once I was amazed I didn't stagger from the impact. And strangely enough, although I thought of Roni, I also thought of my father.

Blue collar. Decent. Honest. Hard working. A simple man who'd loved my mother so much he'd never remarried, even though finding another wife to take care of his child would have made his life easier. Most widowers remarried, especially if they had a child or children.

"Your mother was a good woman," he'd say a few times over the years.

He didn't talk about her much otherwise, but I knew there was a great deal packed into that one sentence because he never forgot her. Every Sunday after church, no matter the weather, we'd visit her grave. He brought flowers to her once a year, on their anniversary, placing them down in front of Mary Kathleen Lowell's headstone.



His fingers had clutched at my forearm as he gasped and fought for his last breaths, trying to get his message across to his only child. And until Mrs. Wilson had figuratively smacked me across the face, I thought I'd understood what he'd been so desperately trying to tell me. With one sentence, however, I realized how wrong I'd been. I'd misunderstood my father completely and the awareness was almost making me dizzy. I'd messed up everything and gotten onto the wrong path, one he'd never intended for me to walk.

I knew Mrs. Wilson meant to leave after firing that missile at me, but I couldn't let her walk away without acknowledging her words, without showing her they'd hit their target.

"You're right," I said wretchedly, almost choking on the admission. "You're absolutely right."

With the way she met my eyes, I felt like she was trying to look into my soul and judge my sincerity. A minute later, she raised an eyebrow at me.

"Then do better, Mr. Lowell. Do something about it."

I nodded just as the Chief Justice turned his attention from my wife to his and the couple walked out, leaving me alone with Roni for the first time all day.

"I'm tired, Paul, so I'm going to bed."

Roni started to head for the bedroom, but I took her hand and tugged her to face me.

"Thank you for tonight, Roni."

"I'm sure you're thankful for tonight. The Wilsons attending the dinner party was quite an achievement for you."

"That's not what I'm thanking you for." Shaking my head in frustration, I knew I was making a muddle of this. "I'm thanking you for the dinner party, not for the Wilsons."

"You didn't thank me after the first dinner party, and nothing was different at this one the presence of the Wilsons, so it stands to reason that they're the  reason you're thanking me this time."

I didn't want to argue the point since she was about to go to the bedroom.

"Roni, we need to talk about everything that happened tonight."

She removed her hand from mine and rubbed her belly. "Not now we don't. I'm tired, and I have nothing to say."

Instead of pleading my case, I stopped because she did seem tuckered out and in the last week, she seemed to have gotten bigger with the baby almost overnight. What we needed to say could wait.

"Good night, Roni."

After she went to the bedroom, I moved the furniture back into place in the living room, making sure there weren't any cups or napkins left on any of the tables. Walking into the kitchen, I noticed the china plates stacked neatly to the left of the sink. Everything else had been washed and put away by the help Roni had hired for the evening.

Taking off my suit jacket and hanging it on the back of a kitchen chair, I rolled up my sleeves and got to work, more memories of my childhood and youth coming back. My father had cooked our meals, and from a young age, I'd washed and dried the dishes, standing on a chair until I grew tall enough to reach the sink on my own.

"Don't break your mother's dishes," my father had warned me, so I'd always been extra careful, not wanting to find out what happen if I broke a plate or a bowl.

After I put Roni's china away, I poured myself a whiskey and sat in the living room, not bothering with a light.

The evening had taken a surprising turn from the minute the Wilsons had walked in. The Chief Justice wasn't someone you expected to walk into your home for a dinner party. I don't think Roni realized who he was until my boss addressed him. Things had gone downhill from there.

I pinched the bridge of my nose, thinking of the way Mrs. Wilson had given Barbara a set down. I was surprised Barbara had put her foot in it so many times, especially after the way we'd argued after the first dinner party.

She'd knocked on my door the Monday after the party, walking into my office as if she owned the world. I had to walk a tightrope here, making my position firmly known while not sending her running screaming to her father's office.

"Can I help you?"

She sat in the chair in front of my desk, poised, unconcerned. "Nice way to greet your future wife."

"You'll never be my wife. I'm already married, and Veronica's going to remain my wife."

Her face was almost comical.

"You can't be serious," she said sputtered. "That...that girl isn't fit to be your wife. Her behavior at the dinner party was embarrassing, and she didn't help your image at all."

"The only embarrassing behavior I saw was yours."

"How dare you!" She came to her feet on a wave of rage, and I followed suit.

"You tried to tear Veronica down throughout dinner."

"To show you just how unsuitable she is."

"I discovered who was truly unsuitable, Barbara, and it wasn't my wife."

"What are you saying? That you prefer that...that woman of easy virtue to stand by your side? Do you want your career to end now?" She held out her hands imploringly. "I can help you, Paul, in ways she never could hope to. Don't let some floozy derail your ambitions and our plans."

"Don't talk about my wife like that ever again," I seethed, and I was surprised at the shock of anger rocketing through me. "Our discussion's concluded. You can see yourself out."

"Everyone's saying it behind your back! They know she was in a delicate condition before you married her."

"That's our business," I said. "Since I'm no longer an option for you, you'll need to find some other man to bamboozle, and pretty quickly, too,  because your shelf life is close to expiring."

She walked over to me and slapped me across the face, her glove making it much less effective than I'm sure she was hoping for.

Smiling at her, I didn't give her the reaction she wanted. "Thank you for once again proving what a close shave I had with you. Now get out of my office, Barbara, and don't darken my door again."

"I could have my father dismiss you just like that," she said, snapping her fingers near my face -- her gloves once again making the gesture ineffective.

"Do your worst," I taunted her. "I've belatedly come to realize that seems to be your specialty."

"Watch yourself," she warned before she sailed out of my office.

I didn't get a dismissal notice on my desk, but days later I was called into Mr. Hall's office where he informed me that he wanted me to host another dinner party and handed me the list of guests.

Sighing, I mentally compiled my own list of things I needed to talk to Roni about. That conversation would take a while and I didn't think, given Roni's opinion of me, that it would be altogether pleasant.

More than the talking, though, was the list of things I needed to begin . I needed to change my wife's opinion of me by righting all of the wrongs I'd committed.

Seemed straightforward enough for a plan I could carry out.

What I hadn't counted on was Roni. Someday not too far off, I'd stop underestimating my wife. I kept thinking she was the constant in our equation when she was, in fact, the variable.

And Roni was about to remind me of that in no uncertain terms.



--- Chapter 13 (Paul): The Filth ---



I had a plan, but Veronica didn't know that. After getting maybe an hour of sleep due to tossing and turning all night, I walked into the kitchen and started the coffee. What Veronica did to the coffee made hers far better than mine.

About an hour after I got up, I was on my second cup of lousy coffee and reading the newspaper when Veronica walked into the kitchen.

I got to my feet and greeted her.

"Morning," she said.

"I made coffee," I told her, "but it's not as good as yours."

"Brown sugar," she said.

"What?"

"I add brown sugar to the coffee to make it taste better. My mother taught me."

"It makes a huge difference to the taste. Good to know," I said, then changed the subject. "What are you doing today?"

"Tidying the house. Some sewing. Why?" She had every right to look at me suspiciously with the way I'd been acting, but I had to start trying to change her mind about me if we were to get along in our marriage.

"I know there's a lot we have to talk about, and I'm including your sewing on the list, so I was wondering if you wanted to talk while we went for a drive."

She looked like she had one Saturday when she'd had to run to the bathroom with morning sickness.

"Ah. My connections have made me worthy of your time."

"No. If you'll recall, I had already been trying to get closer to you right after the first dinner party until you...put the kibosh on that."

"Do you blame me?"

"No." I shook my head. "But I miss it."

"Counselor, you were making plans to annul our marriage after the baby was born."

"I was," I admitted, wondering if this was how witnesses on the stand felt during the cross examination. "And I'm sorry for that, Roni."

"Why are you sorry? You don't love me any more than I love you."

There was that flash of temper I now knew she had.

"We don't love each other, no," I agreed calmly. "But we're married, we're going to remain married and the next fifty years or so will be a lot more pleasant if we get to know each other and form a solid bond for our child. Children."

Her eyes darted away at what I'd suggested. I knew she came from a big family, and I suspected she'd like a big family of her own. Since she'd told me in no uncertain terms that she wasn't divorcing me, I was her only hope for more children.

"And after our drive, I was thinking we could go to church with your family."

She'd asked me early on to go to Mass with her, followed by dinner with her extended family at her parents' house. I'd told her no without explanation or reason.

"As if you'd set foot in a Catholic church or willingly spend time with my family."

"I'm offering," I said.

"Well, Mr. Big Shot, don't do me any favors."

This next part was going to go over like a lead balloon.

"Roni, I lied to you."

She sniffed indelicately. "And this is supposed to be news to me?"

"This is." My father took me to the shore once and told me to just jump in, so I took that approach here. "I was raised Catholic. I was received into the Episcopal church for the connections I could make."

She gasped. "You told me you were Methodist."

"So you wouldn't ask me to go to church with you. I'm sorry, Roni. It wasn't kind of me and I was wrong for lying about that."

Tears filled her eyes. "Do you ever tell the truth, counselor?"

"I am now. I promise, that's all you'll get from me going forward. The truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth."

"Afraid the Wilsons will have a poor opinion of you?" she snapped.

"No. I'm trying to fix poor opinion of me. The Wilsons, by the way, already have an unfavorable opinion of me, and Mrs. Wilson made that very clear the night of the dinner party."

"She's a smart lady," she flashed her eyes at me.

"She is," I agreed.

"So if not for the Wilsons, why are you trying to change my opinion of you?"

"Because I finally figured out what my father meant when he told me to do better than he did. I'd like to tell you about him sometime."

Roni shrugged. "We'll see."

Her tone suggested that might happen when hell froze over, but it was more than I had hoped for.

"I'm not really up for a drive today," she said quietly, and I could feel the hurt my admission had inflicted on her. "Or church."

"Some other time," I suggested easily, and she went off to sew, while I was left to contemplate the severity of all my sins against Roni.



After another week of Roni trying to avoid me, I got called into my boss's office Friday afternoon, wondering if Mr. Hall was going to hand off some new cases to me...or make me a partner. As a senior partner, he could be the one to offer it to me. Unfortunately, I quickly realized that wasn't the purpose of this meeting.

"Have a seat, Paul," he said, and his tone was grave.

I waited him out after I sat down.

"Paul, you know you've been this firm's youngest and brightest star with the sheer number of cases you take on and win or settle out of court. There's no one better than you in the courtroom; frankly, you're the best civil trial lawyer we have."

"Thank you, sir," I said.

"So it pains me to have to bring up such a distressing topic, but as I've heard it from numerous sources and since it has the potential to affect both your reputation and our firm's, I must address it."

I sat up straighter in my seat because this meeting was not about what I'd been expecting after it'd been hinted at so many times lately by the senior partners, including Mr. Hall. The tone of this meeting had quickly turned ominous, and I felt it in my gut like I did when a witness went rogue and said something wholly unexpected on the stand that could hurt my case.

"I'm afraid I have no idea what you're referring to, sir."

"There's no easy way to discuss the rumors that are running rampant around town, but, unfortunately, they've become so loud we can no longer ignore them. I've heard them from two of our rival firms and from several judges and other law firms. You know how scandalous rumors take on a life of their own."

Nodding, I wondered what the hell he was talking about.

"The rumors are about your wife, Paul."

"What could anyone have to say about Veronica?" My tone was aggressive but what scandalous rumors could surround her?

My boss frowned and held his hands up as if to say he was just repeating what he heard.

"There are rumors that you married a soiled dove, Paul."

My mind raced, the term tickling the back of my mind but...he couldn't be implying what I remembered that term meaning. Mr. Hall must have seen that I was struggling to reconcile those words in conjunction with my wife, so he tried again.

"A lady of the evening, Paul," he said with some exasperation as if I'd forced him to say the horrible term. "There are rumors that your wife is a lady of the evening and you met her when you were ."

Had my boss just accused me of soliciting a woman of ill-repute?

"That's the bunk," I said, wanting to leap over his desk and pummel him for talking about Roni like that. "And I'd like to see the liars spreading these rumors provide evidence of their scurrilous claims because they wouldn't be able to."

"That's not all, Paul," he sighed as if the burden was too great to bear.

There was more? My rage was already making it hard to keep my seat, and I couldn't imagine what else there was beyond the filth that Mr. Hall had already repeated.

"In addition to your wife being a lady of the evening, they're also saying she was in a delicate condition when she maneuvered you into marrying her. People are saying she told you it was your child when the truth is...she has no idea who the father of the baby is."



--- Chapter 14 (Paul): His First Name ---



When becoming a trial lawyer, I got a lot of different advice from different lawyers, but all of them said the same thing about controlling my emotions.











But listening to Mr. Hall imply that Veronica was a lady of the evening and had trapped me into marriage with a baby that wasn't even mine? For a minute, I forgot all of my training as my brain struggled to understand what I was hearing. I wanted to strike out at him, grab him by the lapels, throw him against the wall and then teach him a brutal lesson about talking about my wife in such a way.

It took me a minute, I admit, but I quickly gained control and instead of reacting, I began thinking. It didn't take a genius to know who was behind the rumors. Barbara, no doubt, after that scene in my office when I told her I would remain married to Veronica. Now I just had to prove it and gather enough evidence to hang her out to dry.



I didn't know if her father was in on this with her, or if she'd told her malicious lies to her cronies and spread the rumors that way, knowing they'd get to her father. He'd take any threat to the law firm seriously.

"Are you forgetting the repetition rule?" I asked him, my hand straightening my tie then patting it down. Back to calm, cool and collected.

That stopped him. "Of course not."

"Then I must say I'm surprised you're repeating slander. Against your -- by your own admission -- top civil trial lawyer."

"I'm merely repeating rumors I've heard that could have a detrimental effect on my law firm, as well as my top lawyer. I'm making you aware of what's being said."

"So you forgetting the repetition rule."

His face turned red. "Are you threatening me?"

"Threatening you? I'm simply reminding you of the rule as it applies to defamation cases. I'm paraphrasing, of course, but it states that repeating defamatory statements makes you liable for defamation, even if you try to defend yourself by saying you're just repeating what someone else has said."

"I have to protect the reputation and image of the law firm."

"Still not a defense for repeating such disgusting tripe. The firm's reputation and image will take quite a hit when the firm finds itself involved in a defamation lawsuit."

"You little bastard. You are threatening me. Are you forgetting which side your bread is buttered on?"

"Are you forgetting that a number of other firms would be more than willing to hire me? Do you think the sheer number of wins I have goes unnoticed? With one call, I could find another firm to do the bread buttering."

He turned red again. "Not with the rumors currently swirling around your name and your wife's name."

"And what have you said when these other firms and judges have been calling you to relay these rumors?"

"I..."

"Have you been telling them they're malicious lies and nothing could be further from the truth? Or have you been encouraging them to believe the rumors because you aren't debunking them?"

"I'm not saying anything because the law firm's reputation is at stake."

"That does nothing to protect the firm. You should have been taking a firm stand and telling them to stop spreading such horrible lies about my wife and going on record as saying that they are one hundred percent untrue. You should have called them out as the false allegations that they are."

"I don't know if they're true or not! I have respected judges and top law firms calling to tell me what they've been hearing as a personal favor to me so I could get ahead of the rumors and let you know what's being said so we could plan for how to handle them."

"You should have handled each call as it came in. Instead, if you're really getting these calls, you did nothing to handle them and, in fact, only fanned the flames by not immediately denouncing them as the worst sort of lies and threatening defamation lawsuits."

"These were friends doing me a favor, letting me know what was being said so I could address it with you."

"You're digging a deeper hole for yourself with that kind of lame defense, which, by the way, won't hold up in court. Are you forgetting not just the law but that I won a defamation lawsuit only two months ago? So it's all fresh in my mind, all of the points of law I argued and won, and that case was much more difficult than the one you've just dropped in my lap. I could win this one in my sleep."

"You can't do this --"

"You know I'm not going to let this rest. I'm going to talk to all of the people who allegedly called you to share these rumors, and I'm going to track down the rumors until I get to the source, and when I find the source, I will slap that person with a defamation lawsuit as well as every single person who called you -- if they actually did call you -- and I'll include you in that lawsuit to make sure that every person who breathed one word against my wife pays and pays dearly."

He paled at that.

"You can't sue the law firm that pays your wages."

"I must not be aware of that law. Or is that just wishful thinking on your part?"

"It would be impossible to win a case like that. It's too hard to do."

"You're forgetting that I always get handed the cases that are deemed impossible to win...until I win them. So maybe it'd be difficult, but it'd make the news and I'd enjoy trying."

"I'll fire you."

"All partners have to agree to a termination in this firm. Would you like to call them in and make them aware of the rumors you've been repeating? Or have you already discussed the issue with them?"

"I...no. I thought I should let you know first."

That was interesting.

"Then perhaps you'd like to bring them in now? Tell them you're firing me. Let them know that, on the basis of some false accusations and inflammatory statements, you're firing the lawyer that accounts for times the revenue of any other lawyer in the firm?"

"We can settle this between us without resorting to threats."

"You mistake me if you thought I was making threats," I said coolly. "I was making promises and telling you what was going to happen."

Standing, I looked down at my boss, still wanting to beat the hell out of him. That would have to wait until I got what I needed from him. Let him think if he gave me what I was asking for, I would be mollified, no longer pursuing a lawsuit. Once I had everything I needed, once I tracked the source of the rumors to Barbara and could prove it in a way that would stand up in court, then every single person would be named as a defendant in the defamation lawsuit I'd bringing to bear. Every single person.

"I want a list of every person who called to tell you about these rumors on my desk in twenty minutes. Once I have those names, I'll come back in here while you phone every person on that list using the amplifier system so I can hear what's being said. During those calls, you'll make two things clear using very strong statements. The first is that you've investigated the rumors and discovered without question that they are completely false. The second is that they will cease and desist repeating those rumors unless they want to be named in a defamation lawsuit."

"I can't threaten judges --"

"They aren't threats. They're a glimpse into the future. Remember that. Have that list on my desk in twenty minutes, Walter."

His head came up at my use of his first name.





--- Chapter 15 (Paul): How Suspicious ---



I gave Walter twenty-five minutes because that's how long it took me to do what I needed to do. At the end of his deadline, I knocked on his office door and walked in without waiting to be told to enter.

Walter was on the phone, and his eyes bounced to mine before he muttered a hurried, "I have to go, dear."

He hung up the phone and glared at me, looking as if he was about to have a hissy fit any second.

"You don't get to just waltz in my office. I'm still your boss and you will respect that."

"OK, Walter. You were supposed to have that list to me five minutes ago."

He stood because he didn't like me towering over him. Even with him standing, I still did.

"Paul, be reasonable. You can't think it's a wise move to call judges and partners at other law firms. It just makes you look guilty, like you're trying to cover for your wife's bad behavior."

"My wife has no bad behavior to cover. And it doesn't make me look guilty, it makes me look like I'm doing the job you should have done when you got the calls in the first place."

"I wasn't repeating the rumors to make you angry, and I definitely wasn't expecting a reaction like this, Paul. I was trying to discuss it rationally with you so you could be aware and you wouldn't be taken by surprise."

"How would I be taken by surprise?"

Walter looked supremely uncomfortable, hemming and hawing for a moment. Looking as if he'd wished I'd never been hired by his firm.

"The calls I received...all of the men calling me had been informed by their wives of these rumors, so I believe these allegations against your wife may already be all over town, especially in our circles."

For a moment, I allowed myself the soothing vision of picking up this man and throwing him through a window. A fifth-story window. With jagged rocks below it. However, an assault or possible homicide charge wouldn't allow me to do what I needed to do.

"I would suggest, Walter, that if you have any idea of who is behind the rumors, you should tell them to start righting their wrongs immediately, because I verify the source, I'll make sure her reputation is decimated."

"How do you know it's a she?"

"I don't see a man behind this. If it was a man, he'd go after me. But this is personal, Walter. Someone who's trying to strike out at me and using my wife to do it. Gee whiz," I said sarcastically, "I wonder who has a grudge against me?"

His face froze.

"And if I do determine it's the person I suspect, I'll reveal her to be the fast and easy woman she's accusing my wife of being, the only difference being I have proof."

"Talk about defamation!"

"Walter, I think it's been too long since you've tried a case. As the law says, it's not defamation if the statement made is true, regardless of the harm it causes." I let him think about that before finishing. "I don't mind causing harm to the woman who started these rumors about my wife."

"You can't...Barbara had nothing to do with these rumors."

"I named no names, but how odd that you did. If she's innocent, then she has nothing to worry about," I said easily. "Now, about the list of names I asked for. Where is it?"

"I don't think it's wise to give you the names. Not one of them would like being questioned about this. They were uncomfortable enough when they called me."

"I suspected you might say that," I smiled at him. "So I borrowed Mrs. Baird's call log for you and told her it was for a case. I've been going through the list and noting all calls from judges, our two rival law firms and other law firms for the last three weeks, just to make sure I'm reaching back far enough. Your secretary's quite efficient, by the way, with the way she logs each call. Now, you could help me by pointing out who actually called you or should I call all of them and explain the situation? Do you know which choice will put me in a better mood, Walter?"

"You had no right to do that!"

"had no right repeating that baloney they called to tell you about. You should have stopped it. Since you didn't, your best option now is to help me."



The man looked thoroughly defeated, and his shoulders slumped.

"I'll point out who they were."

"You made the right choice," I said, and then we walked together to my office and went over that list.

The seven men all confirmed their wives relayed the rumors to them. Walter looked pinched when we finished with the calls, and I decided to agitate him.

"I just don't see a man spreading rumors like this to all of those women. Seems more and more like a woman who started this to me."

"You don't know that!" he said, his voice sharp.

"No, I don't, which is why I'll continue fact finding."

"These men aren't going to appreciate you interrogating their wives. You're going to do more damage than the actual rumors to your wife."



I frowned. "You're actually making a good point. I'll have to think of some way to approach them that won't anger anyone."

With my list completed, I handed Walter his phone log.

"That proved very helpful. Thank you."

"Things like this can benefit from letting them percolate for a while."

"I'm sure they can," I said.

Once again, I thought of my father and his admonishment to do better. This wasn't the he'd been talking about. I'd been focused on trying to achieve a higher social status, to make more money than he could have imagined as a mechanic, to reach higher than I could have imagined.

I'd been offered this job at a prestigious law firm right out of school because I'd worked hard and graduated at the very top of my law class. But I was still unproven and terrified of revealing myself as a fraud. Hiding my rougher edges was difficult, and I'd known the right wife could help iron out my wrinkles, provide me with the social polish I lacked and help advance my career.

Barbara had seemed like the answer to my prayers. Now, because of my poor judgment, she was more like the Creature from the Black Lagoon and Veronica was suffering because of it.

Of all the things Walter had said, warning me not to approach the ladies involved with the rumors actually seemed wise. I left the office at my usual time, but instead of going home to Veronica, I called on Mrs. Wilson. Not long after I'd been shown into her parlor, she appeared and looked at me rather like she'd look at a bug.

"I need your help," I blurted out, proving my rough edges were still very much in existence, and she sat and gestured for me to sit.

"Tell me everything," she commanded, and I did, every last horrible rumor, what Walter had said and what all of the men I'd spoken with had said.

"Barbara has made a terrible mistake," she said softly after a moment once I'd finished spilling my guts to her.

The sound was chilling.

"May I see your list?"

I handed it to her.

After reading it, she looked up and to my left as a smile slowly came across her face.

"My father would have said I looked like I was up to no good if he saw that look on my face," I observed.

"No good? How suspicious you are," she said. "All I'm planning is a lovely tea party, and I have you to thank for the guests of honor."



--- You're Invited ---





















--- Chapter 16 (Veronica): Pure Ice ---



Paul had been in an odd mood the previous night, distracted, not trying to engage me in conversation, asking only if I wanted him to fix me something for dinner. I'd told him I'd already eaten, and he left it at that. None of the usual (as of lately) questions about what I'd eaten, if I ate enough and if I was hungry again.

No, he moved through the house a bit robotically, and he was so preoccupied, I felt the heaviness following him all through the house. He must have had a difficult case come up or maybe he'd even lost a case, which I could understand being upsetting to him.

"My dear girl," Mrs. Wilson came over the next morning while I was working on a new, pale-blue dress of hers, "we need to talk."

I hadn't been expecting anyone to call, but I'd had a craving for blueberry muffins so I had some still warm from the oven to offer her and quickly started a fresh pot of coffee.

"Is something wrong?" I asked.

"Nothing that can't be righted," she said with a tender smile. "But I want you to beware."

didn't begin to describe what I felt about the rumors she relayed to me. And Paul had called on Mrs. Wilson to help most likely because he was worried about how the rumors would affect him. If he hadn't felt trapped before, I was certain he would now given that this scandal could hurt his reputation.

People were saying that I was a lady of the evening and didn't even know who the father of my baby was. Things were beginning to make sense. For the last couple of days, some of the women I'd run into at the market, the fabric store and a couple of dress boutiques had averted their eyes and walked away from me. Another lady had smirked at me after looking pointedly at my obviously-pregnant belly, right before she'd moved in the opposite direction of me.

Word was all over town that I was a woman of loose morals from the wrong side of town who had trapped her successful lawyer husband with a child that most likely wasn't his. Unable to help myself, I began weeping while Mrs. Wilson silently held my hand. When I had calmed myself, she gave me a handkerchief trimmed with beautiful lace so I could mop my eyes and face.

"Now then, my dear girl, keep your chin up. I understand how distressing this is for you, but I'll set everything to rights very soon. I have a plan, a tea party and more knowledge than any one woman should have about these gossipmongers who have forgotten about the skeletons languishing in the back of their own closets."

"What are you going to do?" She heard the concern in my voice.

"You and your husband are both so suspicious," she teased me gently. "I'm merely going to let the Golden Rule guide me and follow Jesus's example for handling hypocrites."

Despite what I'd just learned, I gave her a wobbly smile. "You're terrifying, you know."

"A true lady can be," she laughed delightedly, "but only in the most genteel way, of course. Now, you've told me about the wonderful women in your family and you've described them as loyal to the end."

"Yes."

"And I'm correct in assuming they wouldn't take kindly to the tales being told about you?"

"No, they'd be furious."

"Perfect. I'd like you to take me to meet them now so I can personally invite them to the tea. I not only want you surrounded by those of us who love you, but I have a special role in mind for them that I'm certain would be right up their alley. We have much to do, Roni, and not a great deal of time. Oh! And I would dearly love to wear one of your designs to this event. It will be the perfect complement to the tea I'll be serving."

"My family can be a bit...loud," I warned her.

"My dear girl, they're your family. I'm sure I'll adore them as much as I adore you."

She did. We stayed at Ma's through lunch, and Mrs. Wilson was laughing just as hard as they were at the wild stories being told.

Not to mention telling a few of her own.



"Ladies, I'd like to welcome you to my Spring tea," Mrs. Wilson was saying into the microphone on the podium. "I'm delighted you were all able to attend."

I'd been amazed at how large the Garden Room was, and even more amazed that it was filled to capacity with about two hundred fifty women all dressed in pastels to celebrate spring. The room was filled with tasteful flower arrangements in spring colors, and each table was set with beautiful crystal and delicate china with dainty florals. We'd just finished eating all of the finger sandwiches, chicken salad, scones with cream and jam, and all of the bite-sized cakes, tarts and pastries when Mrs. Wilson got up to address the room.

"I'd like to take a moment to acknowledge the talented designer of the beautiful dress I'm wearing. Mrs. Lowell was kind enough to make me this dress that is so perfect for the occasion."

There was clapping, but some of the women weren't joining in.

"Ah. It seems from your lukewarm response that many of you may have not only heard about the unfounded allegations against my very dear friend, but were foolish and silly enough to believe them."

There was low murmur of voices, probably wondering why Mrs. Wilson would align herself with the town floozy. But, as directed, I kept my chin up.

"Notice I said . Completely without merit and proof. Scurrilous and false. The most vicious of lies. Please hear me: all of these rumors about Mrs. Lowell are untrue and should be treated as such, especially since they were begun as a result of sour grapes by one particular woman. I'm sure you've all heard the phrase, . These rumors about Mrs. Lowell were a result of that fury and, as such, are baseless and unsubstantiated, the efforts of one woman to discredit another through malicious gossip."

"They are completely untrue," my mother called out from the back of the room. Mrs. Wilson had placed my family in the direct path to the only two doors of the Garden Room. They were to act as bouncers -- instead of escorting a person from a place, they were there to ensure there was no escape for people who suddenly wanted to leave. Aunt Catriona and Siobhan has been particularly giddy at the prospect.

"I'm a big believer in the Golden Rule that we're taught in the Gospel of Matthew, chapter seven, verse twelve: . Do unto others," Mrs. Wilson said.

She let that sink in.

Then Mrs. Wilson smiled at everyone. "So I can only assume that the women repeating and spreading such rumors wish to have rumors repeated about them. However, I don't believe in dealing with rumors. I deal only in proven ."

She fixed her gazed on Barbara's table, where she sat with her cronies who had helped her spread the lies about me. Mrs. Wilson had told me that she and Paul had been responsible for tracking down the source of the rumors and they had done their jobs thoroughly.

"Fortunately, in addition to teaching us about the Golden Rule, Jesus also taught us how to handle hypocrites: by calling them out in front of everyone and exposing their misdeeds."

The room was completely silent, and only Mrs. Wilson's friends and my family were smiling in anticipation. Her gaze zeroed in on one woman who had been particularly gleeful sharing that I'd been in the family way before Paul and I had married.

"Mrs. Nelson."

Mrs. Nelson looked as if she'd swallowed a live frog.

"We understand from several ladies that you spread the rumors that my very dear friend was fast, scorning her because she had to get married due to her delicate condition. And then I remembered that gave birth to a premature baby only five months after you wed Judge Nelson. Fortunately, your baby weighed an astonishing eight pounds, and we all rejoiced that a baby born at five months was so miraculously robust and healthy."

Mrs. Nelson was turning a deep shade of purple, looking down at the table and refusing to meet anyone's eyes.

"Mrs. Lane, you were another one to bandy about accusations of  and in regards to Mrs. Lowell."

All eyes turned to Mrs. Lane, and she looked like she wanted run out of the room but was frozen in fear.

"Mrs. Lane, I notice you're wearing your grandmother's strand of pearls. I was so relieved to hear you finally found all of the pearls after they broke in the backseat of Bobby Simon's Bel Air and you had the most difficult time finding all of them. Of course, I hope you had them tied in between each pearl when you had them restrung to avoid further such mishaps."

Mrs. Lane was as red as I'd ever seen anyone blush, and Mrs. Wilson wasn't done with her.

"You really had a run of bad luck, because only two weeks before the broken strand of pearls, you and Albert Franklin both got that terrible, terrible case of poison ivy in...well, in places best left unmentioned, shall we say. No wonder you moved from the woods to the backseat of a car. Of course, the woods provided more privacy than being caught under the bleachers at the college football game one week earlier with Keith Harris. Three different boys that we know of in just over a month and you have the nerve to suggest Mrs. Lowell is the fast one?"

Mrs. Lane was quietly weeping.

"Mrs. Hill."

Mrs. Hill quickly got up with her pocket book and headed for the door, but Aunt Catriona and Siobhan turned her around and escorted her back to her seat, holding her by the arms.

"You'll face whatever's coming your way," Aunt Catriona said to her loudly, pushing her down into her chair. "If you can spread terrible lies about my niece, you can listen to the truths about yourself."

"Mrs. Hill," Mrs. Wilson continued relentlessly. "We were told by numerous women you spoke to that you were quite gleeful when telling others that Mrs. Lowell probably didn't know who the father of her child was."

She stared down Mrs. Hill, who eventually dropped her eyes.

"All I'm going to say is...while Mrs. Lowell knows who the father of her child is, can you say the same about your ?" She paused, her tone cool. "Would you like me to continue with specifics?"

Mrs. Hill put her hands over her face and shook her head in shame.

"Mrs. Walker."

"Please, no," the lady in question called out. "I apologize. I'm sorry."

"How unfortunate for you that I don't care a whit," Mrs. Wilson said. "An apology does not take back the malicious lies you happily spread about an innocent woman. Saying that Mrs. Lowell was a lady of the evening and met Mr. Lowell while he was looking for a date? Perhaps, Mrs. Walker, you were confusing her story with your own family's story? Given your origins, I would expect you to steer clear of that kind of gossip about others and be much, much kinder."

Mrs. Walker put her arms on the table and began sobbing into them.

Mrs. Wilson revealed additional secrets for a couple of other ladies until she had gone through all of Barbara's cronies, and then her voice went to pure ice.

"And now, Miss Hall, let's take a peek into your closet."



--- Chapter 17 (Veronica): A Genteel Way ---



When Mrs. Wilson called out Barbara, the room went from quiet to silent as a tomb.

"I saved you for last, Miss Hall, not because you're the best by any stretch of the imagination -- quite the opposite -- but because your closet is packed so full that we have a great deal to share," Mrs. Wilson said pleasantly even though this was about to be anything but. "This is going to take a while, especially as you were the source of all the rumors. We traced it backwards from the calls to your father, and those came from the husbands of all the ladies who I just today. And all of them said you told them. Every single lady revealed you as the source."

She gestured carelessly with her hand. "Or, if you'd prefer to look at it another way, rather like the root of all evil, not to put too fine a point on it."

"This is slander!" Barbara tried.

"Yes, the lies you told about Mrs. Lowell were most definitely slander, and we'll have a special guest in a moment to explain about the repercussions of defamation. However, as I mentioned earlier, I would never resort to lying about someone. There's never a need to lie when the truth speaks for itself quite effectively."

"You've been hoodwinked by Mrs. Lowell! She's nothing but a dirty, two-bit floozy!" Barbara snapped at Mrs. Wilson, and she stood up as if to leave.

The entire room gasped at her crude language, and I doubted anyone had ever attended an afternoon tea like this before, with such shocking language and skeletons being yanked out of closets at a dizzying rate.

Of course, some of the guests -- namely my family -- had never attended a high society tea like this before, but they knew how to handle one woman talking horribly about another woman's daughter. Faster than I would have thought possible, my mother and Aunt Laoise were right in front of Barbara.

And  Ma's hand flashed out and slapped Barbara's face. "Mind your filthy mouth about my daughter!"

Then Aunt Laoise pushed Barbara down into her chair and told her not to move or open her mouth again or she'd be getting more than a slap. That was no idle threat.

Family legend said my aunt once knocked down the mother of a little girl who was pushing down Aunt Laoise's oldest daughter, Maureen, every day on the way home from school. My aunt did this to the girl's mother in the middle of the market and loudly warned the woman that for every time Maureen got pushed down, the woman could expect the same treatment from Aunt Laoise. The threat must have worked because Maureen was never bothered again.

"Thank you, ladies," Mrs. Wilson said in approval to my mother and aunt. "Miss Hall, you are really too ridiculous for words, and your audacity makes me understand how you thought you would get away with spreading such malicious lies about Mrs. Lowell without repercussions."

Barbara, still smarting from the slap, seethed, staring daggers at Mrs. Wilson, but she didn't say a word.

"I wonder if part of your vendetta against Mrs. Lowell stems from you being unable to get a man to the altar. You mocked her for being so young and accomplished and married, and perhaps it's because you are none of those things, but perhaps it relates mostly to your unmarried status. Considering how hard your father tried to buy you a husband, that lack of a . designation must sting."

"He never --" she started to object but Mrs. Wilson shook her head.

"Mrs. Brady and Mrs. Dittmeyer can both rejoice in the fact that their husbands turned your father down cold when he offered them five thousand dollars to marry you. Even all that money wasn't enough to gild the pill."

Barbara's mouth opened and closed a number of times, and I heard some snickering from the back of the room where my family was.

"Perhaps we should turn our attention to your very sudden European tour. Accusing Mrs. Lowell of being fast when your father had to send you across the ocean after you were caught with a married man you were seeing two other men, none of whom knew about the others, seems beyond to me. It wasn't a trip abroad because Mr. Lowell wouldn't marry you; it was a narrow escape from a certain wife's wrath, and your father had to pay her a pretty penny to keep her from informing all of society about how you enjoyed the company of married men. He also had to promise that you would never attend any functions she and her husband were attending."

Barbara looked as if she'd like to disappear.

"And, I must say, being the source of the rumors about Mrs. Lowell was hardly your only achievement in the last month."

"No!" Barbara said, in a voice that was anything but restrained and ladylike.

"Oh, Miss Hall, I do dare because I'm not just looking to slap you on the wrist. No, I'm looking to you for what you've done to a sweet, innocent lady and to let you serve as a cautionary tale to others who may be considering telling lies. I don't stand for that kind of morally reprehensible behavior. And I can guarantee that the woman you accused of being a lady of the evening has been the verified source of an outbreak of a certain type of lice, commonly known as crabs, that affected no less than four different men last month."

Well, that produced a sensation that ricocheted through the room because venereal disease simply was not discussed in polite company. You heard it whispered about, but it was never boldly brought into the light. Barbara tearily pointed at Mrs. Wilson and warned her that her father wouldn't let this stand.

"Were I wearing boots, I'm sure I'd be quaking in them," Mrs. Wilson said. "However, since I uttered not one lie today, my husband assured me I would face no repercussions, and I'm almost certain the Chief Justice is as well versed in the law as your father."

Mrs. Wilson looked around the room.

"At this time, I'd like to introduce a special guest to all of you, Mr. Paul Lowell, who will take a moment of your time."

Paul was here? He walked into the room and up to the podium, in a pristine navy blue suit, white shirt and  blue and brown striped tie. He really was the most handsome man I'd ever seen, but in the two weeks leading up to this tea, I hadn't seen much of him at all. He'd had a black cloud hanging over his head and his preoccupation with the rumors about me led to him being distracted and untalkative.

"Thank you, Mrs. Wilson, for letting me speak at your tea today. I suspect that those involved in spreading and repeating lies about my wife are already regretting their actions, but that's not good enough for me. Miss Hall, Mrs. Lane, Mrs. Walker, Mrs. Hill, Mrs. Nelson, Mrs. Gray and Mrs. Turner...you will find that come Monday morning, you and your husbands, or father, in the case of Miss Hall, are being named in a defamation lawsuit against my wife that I'll be filing with the courts."

Once again, the room was abuzz with shocked murmurs, and I really wondered how any tea party could ever top this one for sheer excitement and scandal. It would be talked about for years.

"I mean to make you regret the lies you told about Roni because my wife is a good woman. She deserved of what she found herself embroiled in. To anyone else thinking of repeating the lies about my wife or any other woman, I hope what happened today will make you think twice." His head turned toward Mrs. Wilson. "Thank you."

He walked out and Mrs. Wilson once again took the podium.

"It's time for the gossipmongers to leave my tea party. A word of warning to all of you -- you will be in my presence again. If you still get invited to soirees, dinner parties and balls after today, ask to see if I'll be in attendance because if I am and you accept, I will make you look back to this set down you received today fondly. Am I clear?"

All of them nodded, too afraid to say a word for fear of what other Mrs. Wilson might start sharing.

"Then I'd ask my good friends to escort you out to your cars so you may take your leave. Those parking lots can be treacherous in heels, and after your upsets, I haven't lost all humanity and want to make sure you get to your cars without mishap. Ladies?"

Mom, my aunts, my sisters and my cousins all walked to each of the ladies who were still smarting from the humiliation Mrs. Wilson had just visited on them. The women, eyeing my family with fear, had no choice but to walk out with them. I almost pitied the gossips, but quickly got over it. While Mrs. Wilson attacked with words, my hot-tempered family members attacked with slaps and possibly punches if anyone hurt someone in our family. So I suspected what was about to be happening in the parking lot.

Mrs. Wilson also knew, but she was wrapping up the tea party with some clear messages.

"I suggest you all keep your ears open, and if you hear any of those false rumors about my dear Mrs. Lowell, you put an immediate stop to them. I'll hear about it if you do...and if you don't. And if I hear you didn't take the time to correct someone's misconceptions, I won't to serve up the type of retribution you witnessed today. So I would think, after today's demonstration, most of you would rather be on my good side rather than make an enemy of me."

Scanning the room, she seemed satisfied by what she saw.

"So I shall leave it there, and tell you just how much I'm looking forward to next year's Spring tea. Thank you all for coming today, and I hope you enjoyed this afternoon as much as I did."

As I'd said before, Mrs. Wilson was terrifying.

In a genteel way, of course.



--- Chapter 18 (Veronica): We'd Be There ---



Paul drove me home from the tea party...although felt more appropriate. It felt as if I hadn't taken a deep breath all afternoon. When I walked inside the house, I took off my sunglasses and the scarf on my head and went into my room so I could change.

"Roni," Paul said a few minutes later, knocking on my door.

"What?"

I was tired and wanted to rest for a minute, and I had no idea why he'd come knocking on my door, saying my name like that, almost pleadingly.

"I want to talk to you, and I'd rather not do it through the door since it's not something that's easy to talk about."

At the same moment the baby kicked, my stomach felt sick. Yanking open the door, I stared at him, my expression one of disgust.

"Oh, my goodness. You got those...from Barbara."

"What things?" he asked.

"The...the ," I practically whispered that last, terrible word.

"No," he said, affronted. "No."

Rubbing a hand over his face, he shook his head.

"I won't take much time, Roni. Were you going to rest?"

"Yes. Not for long since it's so late in the day."

"We can talk after you rest."

Opening the door wider, I turned my back on him and lay down on the bed. "Might as well get it over with."

He followed me into the room, but instead of sitting on the chair, he sat right next to me on the edge of the bed.

"Are you ever going to start talking, counselor?" I finally asked when the silence dragged on.

"Are you ever going to call me Paul again?"

"I don't like Paul," I told him bluntly. "Since everything you do is for your career, seems to suit you much better."

"Fair enough," he said, then once again, he didn't say anything for a few minutes. That handsome face of his was tense, and for a man who made his living as a trial lawyer, he didn't seem to be able to find his words. When he did, I sort of missed the silence.

"You were supposed to be grateful I married you, Roni. Grateful the baby wasn't going to be illegitimate. Grateful to me for doing the right thing."

I didn't like the way he was wording it at all, but that didn't mean he was wrong. I had to be honest because I knew what my life would have been like as an unmarried woman with an illegitimate child.

"I was grateful."

He shook his head again.

"I mean grateful in the sense that when the baby was born, you'd allow me to annul our marriage and not make a fuss when I moved you and the baby into an apartment."

"No woman would be grateful for that."

"I know that now. But then, I was just focusing on myself and my career and how best to advance it. I needed the right woman for that, someone who moved about easily in society and could help me take the steps I needed to climb the corporate ladder."

"I heard how unsuited you thought I was for the task at the Christmas party, right before you kissed her."

"I thought Barbara was the way to assure my acceptance into the upper levels of society."

"And once again, I ruined your plans when I made it so you couldn't get an annulment and tuck me away out of sight, along with your baby."

"You didn't ruin my plans for an annulment."

"Don't lie to me." I rubbed my hands over my belly. Mainly to keep them from strangling Paul.

"It's not a lie. I'd already realized Barbara wasn't my future and you were."

"This again? Don't even try to pretend you're in love with me because I won't believe it."

"I'm not in love with you, Roni. That's not why I'm telling you this. But if you think back to just after that first dinner party, my attitude had changed. I was home for dinner. I was affectionate. I no longer tried to avoid you."

"Did Barbara tell you she wasn't going to be waiting any longer so you figured why not make nice with the wife you already had?"

"No. I told Barbara after the first dinner party that I wouldn't be marrying her because I was going to remain married to you."

"Is this another move of yours that I'm supposed to be grateful for? That my cheating husband decided to keep me?"

As always, he ignored the cheating accusation.

"No, Roni. That's not what I'm saying."

"I would hope not."

"I'm not explaining things well, am I?" The corner of his mouth kicked up as he mocked himself.

"Not at all. I hope you're better in the courtroom where it counts."

Oh, good gravy! That got me a swift, irritated glance.

"It counts here in our home, Roni. It counts."

"Why do you keep trying to make this marriage more than it is?"

"I'm not. I'm trying to be realistic. We've both agreed we're not in love, but we've also both agreed that we're going to remain married. So this is our marriage, Roni, and like I said before, I think it would be better to get along. To forget how we began and work together."

"Forgetting how we began works decidedly in your favor."

"It does. I had ill-intentions toward you and the baby, I spoke poorly of you to another woman and I kissed that same woman. Of course I want to move on from that."

"I'm sure kissing wasn't all you did with Barbara."

He tilted his head. "It was. Once I met you at the nightclub, I was never together with Barbara again in the way you're implying. The kiss was the entirety of what happened between us since our night at the club."

I sniffed indelicately, telling him without words what I thought of his statement.

"Why would I lie, Roni?"

"For a million reasons."

"Name one."

Closing my eyes, I sighed. "Because Mrs. Wilson is my friend, she's married to the Chief Justice and you're a social climber."

"That's a compelling argument, but it's not a reason to lie about Barbara and what happened and happen between us."

"You still kissed her."

"I did."

"You could at least act like you're sorry!"

"Would you believe me if I said I was sorry?"

"No."

"I also have no evidence, other than my word -- which you just said you don't believe -- to convince you that I'm sorry for that kiss."

I sat up on, propped on my elbow, and poked a finger at him. "You never should have kissed her! You were a married man!"

"I still am," he said. "But I didn't care about that. All I cared about was getting back to the life I planned."

"That's so..."

"Horrible? Selfish? Contemptible? Self-centered? Agreed. I was all of those things."

"Was? More like still are, only now you want to salvage things because of the Wilsons. People don't change that fast, counselor."

"It wasn't fast, Roni. I had a few realizations along the way that had nothing to do with the Wilsons."

Once again, I closed my eyes to give myself a tiny escape from looking at Paul's face.

"Maybe you started to change your mind when you saw what was lurking under Barbara's polished exterior?"

"That was eye-opening, but it still wasn't what really changed my way of looking at things."

"It's a long way from changing your thinking to being able to prove it."

"I've got time, Roni. Starting tomorrow."

That popped my eyes open.

"What are you talking about?"

"I've been tallying up all the ways I've been a terrible husband to you, trying to figure out ways to do better. So, in the parking lot after your family assisted the gossips to their cars, your mother asked us over for the Sunday meal. She said she was making bacon and cabbage, colcannon and soda bread."

"All foods you turned your nose up at when we were first married and told me to stop making."

"Yet another way I was a terrible husband," he admitted right off.

"I hope you told her we couldn't make it," I said, dreading his answer.

Why on earth had Ma invited Paul to the house? Nobody in the family was fond of him, and with what had happened today at the tea, I imagined his name would be mud with my family.

"Oh, no," he said. "I thanked her for the invitation and told her we'd be there."

The baby kicked again, as if to warn me that sharing a meal with my family and my husband would be a bad idea. Unfortunately, my husband had accepted, so my family would be expecting us and Ma, my grandmother and aunts didn't take disappointment well. At all.

"This isn't a good idea," I warned him.

"It'll be fine," he said with all the cocky arrogance Paul had.

It wasn't. Oh, it was about as far from fine as you could get.



--- Chapter 19 (Veronica): A Black Dress ---



Paul made me brinner later that evening , and as I gobbled it down, I worried a bit about going over to my family's home the next day after church. I mentally went through my wardrobe and wondered if I had a black dress suitable for a brand-new widow. I'd definitely need a new hat and veil. Gloves, too, and I might as well get some new, smart black shoes. Oh, and a black pocket book and a black hankie or two.

With my mourning ensemble covered, I eventually went to bed and slept fairly well considering the next day could turn me from a wife into a widow. Had Uncle Cormac been around, he could have given me odds on that happening since he moonlighted as a bookie.

I woke up, got ready for church and dressed in a light green polka-dotted dress. If this was the last time I could wear pastels for a while, I wanted to wear my favorite outfit. Grabbing my white pocket book and a light sweater, I hurried to get out of the house so I wouldn't be late to church.

Paul was waiting in the living room, looking dapper in a light gray suit, light blue shirt and dark blue tie.

"Ready?" he asked.

"For what? We aren't going to my parents' house until after I go to church."

"I'm going to church with you," he said simply, as if this was our routine every Sunday.

"Are you sure you should be seen among the Catholics? We don't usually muck about in the high society you're aspiring to," I said, then lowered my voice. "Rumor has it that some plumbers and electricians have been seen at Mass, if you can believe it."

"My father attended Mass and he was a mechanic, so I can believe it." He smiled that movie star smile at me, his one dimple making a rare appearance. "You look lovely in the mint green dress, Roni. I think it might be my favorite color on you."

"I'm not surprised given your mint green Thunderbird," I said, ignoring the compliment because I didn't like the way it made me feel. Half angry and half flattered. Then I thought about what he'd said about me at the Christmas party, and the half flattered part scurried away and I was all angry.

We attended Mass together, and then he drove me to my parents' home. We walked in the door and to the kitchen where my mom and aunts were cooking and chopping and stirring

"Who are you?" My granny peered at Paul. She knew who he was. "Do I know you?"

I stood by, smiling, letting Paul handle this.

"I'm Paul," he said.

"That doesn't mean anything to me," she said. "There's Paul the butcher. And one of the boys at the fish market is Paul."

"I'm Paul, Roni's husband."

"Roni's married?" she gasped.

Did I mention my granny was a stage actress in Ireland, and my grandfather met her after one of her performances? There was some scandal involved that was only hinted at, but we could never get the story from Granny, who always kept her flair for the dramatic. My aunts and mother were trying not to laugh at her antics now.

"Yes," he said. "She's  married to me."

"Have we met before?" Granny asked him with a straight face. "I forget things at my age."

The woman was such a liar. She forgot nothing and her mind was like a trap.

"We met right after Roni and I were married," he explained.

"And I'm just seeing you now after how long? Were you away at sea? Are you one of those sailors with a woman in every port? You have to be careful not to get crabs from those floozies."



--- Chapter 20 (Paul): Check On Me ---



"Let's have a taste before we get down to it," Veronica's father said solemnly once we were all gathered out back. "The water of life."

He lifted the bottle of whiskey while looking around at all of us. "Sláinte!"

Then he passed it around and everyone took a healthy swallow. Or two or three. I stopped at one, knowing I'd need my wits about me. What I should have done was drunk myself into oblivion.

I was waiting, wondering how they'd begin this, so after the bottle was passed to me and I shared in the ritual, I began unbuttoning my shirt so I'd be fighting in my undershirt. One of Veronica's uncles -- Cormac, maybe -- pointed at me, giving a big shout of laughter.

"Got to take your fancy shirt off to work on the car?"

I didn't look at him as I worked at my cufflinks. "If you'd brought me out here to work on the car, I would have taken it off, yes. But we all know you didn't bring me out back for repair work."

"So not a complete dumb arse after all," Veronica's father grinned at me as he tapped his temple. "I was beginning to wonder if there was anything going on up there."

My father-in-law looked at me expectantly, waiting for a response.

"I won't argue I was a dumbass where your daughter was concerned."

", boyo? Still are from the looks of things."

He stepped closer to me, and his look was what you'd expect from a father whose youngest daughter had been led astray by a man who'd treated her poorly. His finger jabbed me in the chest.

"From where I'm standing, I should have brought you out back a lot sooner, but you weren't enough of a husband to bring your wife to her family's once a week. Couldn't be bothered with your trashy wife or her family from the wrong side of town. Had your image to maintain."

Those were similar to words Veronica had said to me, so I knew without a doubt she'd repeated them to her mother, sisters and aunts, and they'd been repeated to the men in the family. I felt all of their eyes on me, hostile and unimpressed, and knew I was in for it.

"Roni's better than you deserve," one of her brothers said to me. When I realized I didn't know his name, I felt shame sweep over me. I'd met her brothers once and hadn't bothered to learn their names.

Knowing this was just going to make it worse, I stared at him. "Which one are you?"

He turned to his family behind him. "Doesn't even know his brother-in-law's name. I need to tell him my name."

When he turned back to me, he smiled as he punched me hard in the gut. "I'm Brendan, you ass. Try to remember that so I don't have to keep you."

I stayed on my feet, but just barely. He'd hit hard, and I wasn't expecting it right then so I hadn't been able to brace myself.

While I was trying to catch my breath, another brother walked over and hit me in the face. "I'm Aiden, you bastard. In case you didn't know."

That punch made me stagger back a few feet as the third brother stepped in front of me.

"You got my little sister in the family way, but you've proven you haven't really stepped up. You're no man and a shit husband to boot."

After delivering that indictment, he sucker punched me in the stomach, and I doubled over.

"By the way, I'm Liam, her oldest brother."

Veronica's four cousins, her uncles and even her grandfather all make sure to themselves to me with their names and something scathing to say about me lacking as a husband and a man. To drive home their points, they punctuated their messages with their fists.

I finally end up on the ground, bloody and wrecked, and Roni's father stood over me. Patrick was the only one that hadn't hit me.

Yet.

By the look in his eyes, he was about to.

"You didn't hit back even once. You too much of a wimp to even defend yourself?"

"Normally, I would have fought back. First time in my life I didn't."

I spit out a mouthful of blood onto the dirt. Fortunately, my teeth seemed to have survived.

"Too scared of the Irish?" Patrick mocked me.

I looked at him, and let him see in my eyes I wasn't afraid. "Too deserving of the beatdown."

His eyes were fierce. "In our family, you take pride in being a man and a husband, a good provider. Our women are tough as nails and they're good women."







"I always wanted my girls to find good husbands who'd take care of them like I did. Who would love them, respect them and build a nice family with them. Who'd protect them and cherish them, but Roni found you," he spat in disgust.

I was surprised my skin hadn't been flayed off my bones by this point.

"You had none of the traits of the husband my wife and I wanted for our daughter. You dared to be embarrassed of my little girl when she's everything good and sweet. She's smart, can cook like a dream and sew like a queen, and she has a temper to keep a man on his toes and make life interesting."

His hands were tight fists.

"You should be ashamed of the plans you had for my daughter and her child."

"My child, too," I said, perhaps unwisely because my father-in-law's face reddened with anger and his fists came up.

"Your child, my arse. You were going to turn your back on my daughter and her child, set them aside for that cheap floozy. Tell me how that makes the babe yours."

"I would have supported them. And I would have been a father to my child."

"My child, you sniveling bastard. You need to do more than throw your dirty money at a problem to be a father. Would you be there when the baby was sick? Would you be there for those little hands reaching up at you, demanding to be picked up? Would you be there for her first steps, her first scraped knee? Because that's what it takes to be a father, not your damn money. And should we talk about what would have happened to Roni if you'd set her aside? The thought makes me want to kill you."

"Ma said you couldn't, Dad," Liam said with a smirk.

"Accidents happen, son," Patrick snapped back before he returned his attention to me. "Stand up."

It was painful because I'd taken quite a few shots to the ribs, but I managed because Patrick deserved a chance at me, too.

"If there's a worse man than you, I don't know of one," he sneered. "You're the absolute last man I would have chosen for my daughter. You think she's beneath you, but you aren't even worthy to be spit on by her, you spineless arse. I hope you take pride in the fact that being a lawyer is the only accomplishment you'll ever achieve because you're lacking as a man and a husband in every way you can."

Quick as lightning, he punched me in the face and I went down again, knowing that hit broke my nose. Wasn't the first time in my life that had happened, and I suspected it wouldn't be the last with this family.

A toolbox was dropped by my head and Patrick stood over me again, glaring.

"The Buick is running rough. Fix it."

Then all of them laughed, thinking I couldn't, as they left me out back to head into the house.

Getting to my feet, I got started on the Buick, wondering how they'd explain my absence to the women, wondering if Roni would come out and check on me.

She didn't.



--- Chapter 21 (Veronica): Feel Fully ---



I was watching for Paul without trying to make it look like I was as all of the men in my family filed in from the back. My Dad gave me an innocent look.

"Told him to fix the Buick. He'll be back in when it's done."

The grin on all of my brothers' faces told me that they expected him to fail, and my uncles were giving each other sly looks.

Then they all went out onto the front porch, most likely to have a nip, and I wondered if  meant I needed to get my mourning clothes after all.

I started to get up from the table, but Ma waved me back down.

"Let them sort your husband the way they need to, and you sort your husband the way you need to."

"But, Ma, did they..."

"Psshh. I told your dad and brothers they were to kill him, and your father wouldn't dare risk my temper. So if they said he's been left out back to fix the Buick, he's fixing the Buick."

"He's fine, Roni," Aunt Catriona tried to reassure me. "Da took a few of our husbands out back in the early days of our marriages. They all survived and were the better for it in the long run."

I couldn't help looking at the back door, but why I was worried I didn't quite understand. Maybe because I never thought I looked good in black. It certainly wasn't because I was concerned for the chucklehead.

Ma put her hand over mine. "We'll have dessert in a bit and you can call him in then, Roni. Just don't fuss if he's a bit worse for the wear. Overlook it, if you can."

My mother had always been good with the advice, so I nodded. Almost an hour later, the men started shuffling in from the porch, asking for dessert. At just about the same time, Paul came in from out back and tossed the keys to my father.

"Running like a top now," Paul said to him.

Dad and all the other men looked surprised, but my father recovered quickly. "We'll see when we take it for a ride after dessert."

Was  the same as ? Ma would probably know but I couldn't ask her right now when we were in the middle of dessert.

I could see that Paul wasn't wearing an undershirt beneath his shirt as he always did, and he'd obviously tried to clean up his face and hands -- both blood and grease, I imagined, based on his face.

"What happened to your face?" Granny asked loudly. "It looked better before."

"Dropped the wrench on it a few times while I was fixing the Buick," he lied right to her face. There were some muffled bursts of laughter from my uncles and devious snickers from my brothers.

"Be more careful next time so it doesn't happen again," my father admonished him mildly, and we all knew he wasn't talking about the car.

Paul understood the message, too, because he looked right at me. "I'll be more careful going forward."

"Everyone wash up," Ma ordered everyone briskly. "There's lemon chiffon pie, banana cream pie and peach cobbler for dessert. Siobhan, Laoise, you make sure everyone has coffee who wants it. Roni, Maureen, you get the pie orders. Catriona, you cut the slices. I'll make sure everyone gets a piece."

We started working as everyone else sat at the long table, and when I was done with pie orders and everyone had coffee, I sat beside Paul.

"Looking a bit of a mess, counselor," I observed quietly so he had to lean to hear me. "It's a crying shame you're so clumsy with tools."

"The important thing is that the car's fixed."

He was in lawyer mode, not giving anything away with his calm tone. Not addressing anything that had really happened out back. I know Ma had said to let the men sort it, but I wondered what had been said out there, what had happened to Paul's face.

Paul didn't say much during dessert and he'd had more coffee than dessert, as if chewing hurt. Seeing the bruise that was forming on his jaw, I could see why.

"Thank you," he said to Ma. "The pie was really good."

She pursed her lips and nodded, not saying anything. "It was  to have my daughter here."

Mothers didn't have to say much to deliver a lecture. A few words said with a certain tone, a meaningful look, a tilt of the head and the message was delivered.

Then Dad and Grandy came to get Paul to take the Buick for a ride, and once again, I fretted without meaning to, without fully understanding why. I had visions of Dad flying down some back road and Grandy pushing Paul out of the car to land in a ditch.

"Roni," Liam said, bumping my shoulder with his, "don't worry about him. He's not worth it."

"I know, Liam. I just don't want anyone going to jail. You he's a lawyer."

"That's about all he is," Liam said scathingly. "But he won't be calling the police on us, Roni."

Twenty minutes later my father and grandfather came back, and Paul followed behind them.

"How's my Buick?" Granny called out.

"It's good. But you need to stop driving like a maniac, wife. Boyo here said you're going to need brakes soon."

That started them bickering and soon everyone was taking a side. Not long after Granny agreed to slow down a bit, Paul and I said good bye to my family and left.

Paul wasn't talking much, but I needed to know. "What happened out back?"

"We had some whiskey. We talked. I fixed the Buick."

"And what was said?"

"Why do you want to know, Roni?"

"My red hair makes me curious."

His sudden laugh turned quickly to coughing. "It hurts to laugh, Roni. But you wanting to know, it has to do with your red hair."

"Fine. I'm curious."

Paul sighed and rubbed his hand lightly over his jaw. "Your father pointed out some things I needed to think about. Your uncles, brothers and grandfather also had some advice for me."

"You must be a better mechanic than a fighter," I said. "You look like they put you through the wringer, but no one in my family had a mark on them. "

"No, they didn't."



"You didn't fight back," I said as it dawned on me. "Why?"

"Mmmm."

"Why won't you just tell me what happened?"

"Your family gave me a lot to think about today, Roni. I like to go over things in my head before I talk about them."

That wasn't what I was used to with my family, where we blurted out thoughts and ideas as soon as we had them, but if Paul wanted to think about things before talking about them, I could try to understand that.

Paul was silent as he concentrated on the road, but then I felt his fingers lightly brush against my arm.

"Roni, I want to stop doing everything wrong with you and start treating you right. The way I should have from the start. Your dad said a lot of things to me today that I needed to hear, things that I could hear my own father saying to me with that same anger and disappointment."

There was something in his voice that sounded wistful, and I thought about growing up without my loud family surrounding me. The thought made me feel empty and I wondered if the lawyer sometimes felt lonely.

"Today was the start of showing you that I want to stop disappointing you. I can do better, Roni, I promise. I do better."

Paul looked over at me so fast, I didn't even have time to look away and pretend I hadn't been watching him. I'd been trying to figure out if he meant what he said or if he'd just been saying things he thought I wanted to hear. That was the problem with seeing a person one way for so long; it wasn't easy to change your opinion and stop seeing him as having bad motives for everything he did.

We got home and walked inside together, Paul holding himself gingerly as he headed to the cart that held the liquor and pouring himself two fingers of whiskey. He then threw that whiskey down his throat and sighed as if he'd needed that badly, his eyes closed in either relief or pain.

"Are you OK?"

"I will be when you are," he said vaguely. "For now, I'm going to go take a shower and then I'm going to bed."

"Do you want some ice for your face?"

"No, thanks. Some things you need to feel fully, and this is one of them."

He walked slowly away, and I was left trying to puzzle out this entire day. But if I thought his behavior had been odd today between going to church with me and then to my family's, that was nothing compared to what happened the next week.



--- Chapter 22 (Paul): The Suspicious Look ---



I stood in the shower, wincing as the heat hit the bruises all over my body, every sting from the water a blistering reminder of my many and various failures.







When accusations like that are thrown at you, they aren't really accusations if they're the truth. And everything her family had said to me was accurate. There were no lies told out back, and that knowledge had shame washing over me hotter than the water hitting my body.



I was taking pride only in doing better, the way I thought my father had meant. Getting a high-paying job, climbing the social ladder, allying myself with a woman who could further help my career and social standing. My mind was so focused on my interpretation of  that I'd almost missed Veronica.



We'd both been taken by surprise by the baby, but only Veronica had embraced our situation and had tried to make the best of two veritable strangers being forced into marriage so the child wouldn't be illegitimate. What the hell she'd seen in me other than a self-centered man, I'd never know. But she'd finally accepted what I was. Selfish. Snobbish.



I hadn't even given her a chance. I'd just deemed her unacceptable, tarred her family with the same brush and hadn't had much to do with my wife and even less to do with my in-laws.





As a lawyer, I was an expert at arguing any side of an issue, and I'd made my arguments to myself as to why I would be justified in annulling my marriage to Veronica. I had plans for my future and they didn't include a marriage that didn't help my future. The baby would have been born legitimate, which was the entire reason I'd married her, and I didn't owe her any more than that.



It felt horrible to admit now, but I hadn't given any thought as to what would happen to Veronica; I'd been focused solely on getting my life back on track. In the back of my mind, Veronica could move somewhere else and pass herself off as a widow, and I could be a relative visiting a set number of times a year to see my child. I hadn't factored in just how important Veronica's family was to her and that she'd be reluctant to leave them. In fact, I hadn't thought about anything but being an occasional father my child.

I'd let my wife down, I'd let my in-laws down, I'd let my father down.

I'd let myself down.

Turning off the water, I slowly wrapped a towel around myself because I was really feeling the hits I'd taken now. Making my way gingerly into the bedroom, I was surprised to see Roni there. Her eyes flicked to my torso and her face turned red.

"You have no idea, counselor, how much I wish  been responsible for every bruise on your body."

I held my hands out to my sides to invite her to throw a punch. "Go ahead, Roni," I said.

Her chin lifted. "Any more and I'm afraid you'll die, and I need you alive to provide for my baby and me. That's all I want you for, so no need to keep going to church with me or going to my family's."

I couldn't move as fast as I wanted, but I got right in front of Veronica and put my hands on her arms, my belly bumping against hers. It was harder than I'd expected; for some reason, I thought her belly would be soft, like a pillow.

"I'll provide for you and baby, Roni. I'm going to keep going to church with you and to your family's. Do you know why?"

"Because my father, brothers and uncles threatened you."

Smiling split my lip open again and hurt like the devil, but it was worth it.

"No, Roni, because that's what a husband does and I'm your husband, whether you like it or not."

"Definitely ," she snapped. "And if you think I'm going to be grateful because you've suddenly decided to be my husband, you're wrong. I know the plans you had for me, and they weren't to prosper me but to harm me, to take away my hope and my future."

"That's not how Jeremiah said it in chapter twenty-nine, Roni," I teased her, loving her mind that could so agilely take a Bible quote and turn it around on me like that. "And I want you to remember that is the critical word in what you just said.  as in past tense, which you'll see."

"Are you going to take your hands off my arms at any point?"

"Do you want me to?"

"Yes," she practically spat at me.

"Then I will," I said.

The next day, I came home with a high chair, and Roni looked surprised when I put it in the corner of the kitchen near the table.

"Do you like it?"

"It's very nice," she said grudgingly, but she walked over to examine it and run her fingers over the soft, polished wood.

"Friday night, I asked my friend Michael and his wife Susan to go out to eat with us."

"You didn't ask me," Veronica objected.

"Would you have agreed?"

Lips clamped together, she looked away from me and didn't answer.

"I want you to meet them," I said. "You and Susan have something -- -- in common."

Now she was looking at me suspiciously. "Who?"

"Mrs. Wilson. I looked at Susan's Avon contract to be a model for their catalog, and Mrs. Wilson is her boss. Susan also sells Avon."

"She knows Mrs. Wilson? She has a job?" She couldn't hide her excitement about both of those facts.

I nodded. "You could talk about your plans for starting your own clothing business with her. She also had a baby a few months ago, and Michael said this will be her first time leaving the baby, so maybe that will help distract her from worrying about the baby."

Roni looked thoughtful. "OK, I'll go."

The next night, I came home and Roni was on the couch reading a magazine. "Would you like to go for a drive with me? We could pick up McDonald's for dinner, and there's something I want your opinion on," I told her.

Her eyes slid to me as if I was trying to lure her off a cliff, making me determined not to get that suspicious look on her face every time I asked her to do something with me. McDonald's was still new enough to be a novelty and a special treat, but I knew Veronica liked their strawberry milkshakes, so I hoped that would sweeten the deal.

"What do you want my opinion on?"

"A car."

"Is something wrong with the Thunderbird?" she asked.

"Yeah. It's a two-seater. We need a car better suited for our family, and I want to look at some models to find out what you like before I trade in the Thunderbird."

"I don't trust this sudden about face," she blurted out.

"Why would you? It'll take some time," I told her, then I stepped even closer to her. "I have all the time in the world to convince you."

The next night, I brought her home a bouquet of pink and blue flowers.

"Do you want a boy or a girl?" I asked Veronica, setting the flowers down on the coffee table. "I realized today I don't know."

"I don't mind one over the other," she said almost shyly as she ran her hand over her belly. "But all along, I've been feeling like the baby's a girl. Ma and Granny do, too, and they're usually right."

"A girl would be nice," I said. "One with bright red hair."

"So she could look like a neon sign, too?" she asked waspishly.

"I never said that," I reminded her. "I think your hair was one of the things about you that drew me in and kept me coming back week after week to see you. So I think a little girl with your hair would be perfect for our first born."

Once again, that earned me the suspicious look.

But that look was mild compared to the look I got the next night when I came home and Barbara was in our house.



--- Chapter 23 (Veronica): The Garbage Can ---



Every time I walked into the kitchen, I looked at the high chair Paul had brought home, trying not to admire it. Although it was beautiful, I didn't like that he'd thought of it because I didn't trust the reasons behind him bringing it home. I hoped he didn't think buying me things would also buy my good will.

The flowers had surprised me, but Paul asking if I wanted a boy or a girl had been even more unexpected, enough to have me answering him. I'd fully anticipated him being disappointed that I felt I was carrying a girl, but he hadn't been -- or, if he had been, he hadn't let me see.

We'd wandered around a car lot after hours, Paul watching me closely, asking me what color cars I liked, which ones I liked best, which ones I thought would work best for our family.

, I noticed he kept saying. He also kept repeating the word . For a man who'd tried to ignore both me and my baby, he seemed to be making up for lost time, as if to tell me he wasn't avoiding either one of us anymore. As if he'd gone straight past accepting us to embracing the fact that we were his family.

He'd gone even further when he'd asked me to dinner with his friends, Michael and Susan. I probably shouldn't have accepted his invitation, but I wanted to meet Susan since she knew Mrs. Wilson and she worked, even with a husband and a baby. She wouldn't understand my marriage difficulties, but she could understand my desire to work at something I loved and we could talk about babies. My hopes were high that she would be a nice woman and not one like Barbara and her friends.

Just about the time I was expecting Paul home, the doorbell rang. Wondering why he was ringing the bell, I opened the door and found the only person I wanted to see even less than I wanted to see my husband.

Barbara.

"What do you want?" I asked rudely.

"May I come in?"

"Just a moment. I wasn't expecting you."

"Most women have their house company-ready at all times," she said ever-so-sweetly.

Since she was still being nasty, that sealed her fate. Even though I wasn't wearing any, I took off my gloves and prepared to allow the enemy into my home.

"Most women aren't expecting someone like with yourto appear on their doorstep. Just a moment," I repeated, right before I shut the door in her face.

Hurrying, I readied the foyer for her, wondering if Paul was on his way home, hoping I could get rid of her quickly. Hoping he wouldn't let her stay for long. When I had everything ready, I flung open the front door.

"You can come in now," I said in my most unwelcoming voice.

She stepped in and saw the newspapers spread out on the floor of the tiled foyer.

"Stop right there," I said as she made to step off the newspapers. "I've never had the crabs, so I don't know if they jump off or fall off or run off, like rats from a sinking ship, so you stand on those newspapers and don't move."

Her face turned red alarmingly fast. "How dare you!"

"How dare your crab-infested self stop by my house," I said calmly in reply.

"house," she scoffed. "How fast you've laid claim to your house."

Barbara tried to step off the newspapers, so I stopped her again, this time with the long-handled wooden spoon I'd grabbed from the kitchen so I didn't have to actually touch her if the need arose. I pointed it at her face.

"Either leave house or stay on the newspapers. I don't want the crabs flying off everywhere."

"I don't have...." She was grinding her teeth, looking angry enough to hit me, but my wooden spoon was stopping her.

"Anymore," I added pointedly. "Maybe you don't have them but I don't trust you, and I don't want to take any chances with the crabs running around my house. Just looking at you makes me itch."

She actually raised her hand to me, and I smacked it away hard with my wooden spoon. With a muttered yelp, she cradled her hand to her chest.

"If you think that hurt, the next one's to your face if you don't stay put and keep your hands to yourself," I warned. "You how my mother handled you when you spoke badly of me. So I learned from her, and I'll use my spoon instead of my hand so I don't risk catching the crabs from you. Now, tell me why you thought stopping by my house was a good idea."

"That's between Paul and me."

"We have nothing to talk about," Paul's deep voice said from behind me. He'd quietly come in the side door after parking in the car port. "What are you doing here?"

"Paul, I need to speak with you," Barbara said to him, and I realized she sounded desperate.

She stepped toward him and I reached out and smacked her on the cheek with the spoon. "I told you to stay on the newspapers. Don't move again or I'll smack you harder, and believe me, I want to after the lies you spread about me."

Her eyes were furious as she cradled her cheek. "Paul!"

Paul stood beside me, saying nothing to her. I figured I owed her several smacks on the face, so I was hoping she'd keep pushing me. When Barbara realized Paul wasn't going to help her, she finally got to the point of her invasion.

"Paul, I'm asking you to stop pursuing the lawsuit," she pleaded. "My father's not happy that you named him in the suit along with other lawyers and judges and their wives. He's going to fire you if you don't ask the court to dismiss the case. You're not supposed to bite the hand that feeds you!"

"He already fired me today just before I left the office." Paul looked toward me. "I'm not concerned because I have three standing offers from different law firms. I'll have another job within a couple of days once I weigh the merits of the offers."

"Paul, this lawsuit is ridiculous. You've made your point, we've learned our lesson --"

"I've had this same conversation with your father. I'll tell you the same thing I told him: you either admit you slandered my wife and settle with the numbers I gave Walter, or I take this to court and pursue it until I win. And I win. We all know that, which means there won't be any negotiations, so you can leave."

"This is so unfair, Paul." As she said that, she took a step toward him, hand outstretched. "Please don't do this."

I smacked her hand and then her face with my wooden spoon and she yowled like a cat whose tail got stepped on.

"I told you to stay on the newspapers and keep your hands to yourself."

Barbara was apparently a slow learner because she moved toward me as if she was going to hit me. Paul tried to move in front of me, but I sidestepped him and smacked her hand and then her face twice.

"Want to keep going?" I asked her as she whimpered.

"This isn't right, Paul!"

"What isn't right is you making the choice to spread lies about my wife, which turned out to be a very bad choice for all involved."

"You have to stop this!"

She moved again toward Paul. Barbara recoiled with pained exclamations back to the newspapers.

"Don't stop by again," Paul said to her. "Your father is extremely aware of my terms."

"We can't afford to pay your terms," she confessed angrily.

"Not my problem. If you ever come by again and bother my wife, I'll ask for more damages."

Barbara once again moved in the wrong direction she was so infuriated, and I let loose with my spoon, not stopping until she stumbled onto the porch through the open front door, trying to stop the wicked wooden spoon from connecting as she cried out with each hit.

"Paul, you better reconsider," Barbara warned, thinking she was safely out of spoon range.

She wasn't. I threw the spoon at her as hard as I could and luck was with me because it hit her right in the nose. Although it wasn't hard enough to break it, it was hard enough to make it bleed. After stumbling back, she tumbled down the two steps leading to the porch and landed in an undignified heap on the driveway, her crinoline and skirt fluffed up past her face.

"Looks like you're the one, sitting here in such an unladylike manner with your crabs on display, who better reconsider her choices," I said to her. Very sweetly.

We didn't get to see Barbara struggle to her feet because Paul shut the front door. There was so much I wanted to ask him, but I focused on the most immediate issue.

"You need to pick up the newspapers and put them in the garbage can," I told him. "Then I'd suggest washing your hands in boric acid to make sure her crabs don't jump on you."

Paul shook his head as if I'd amused him. "That's not how they work, Roni."

"Well, you'd know, I'm sure," I said to him.

"I don't know the way you're implying," he said. "Was Barbara here for long?"

"No, just a minute or two before you walked in."

"Don't let her in again."

"I won't. We don't have that much newspaper."

Paul looked like he was going to laugh for a moment, but he stayed serious. "I don't want to take a chance with you and the baby."

"Barbara was the one with the bloody nose," I reminded him.

"That she was. But let's not take any chances with you or our baby, OK?"

"I'll be careful."

"Please do," Paul said to me, then he changed the subject. "I was hoping we could spend Saturday starting to get the baby's room ready. Pick out a color to paint the walls. Buy some furniture. I can empty the room out, too."

I looked at him suspiciously.

"Let's get through dinner with Michael and Susan first," I said, thinking if dinner didn't go well, I wouldn't want to spend the day with Paul.

"And after church on Sunday, we'll go to your family's."

"You want to go back?" I knew he hadn't forgotten what had happened the previous Sunday because he still had two black eyes from his broken nose and bruises all over his torso.

"Yes," he told me. "Your Granny's car needs brakes, and I need to talk with your father."

"About what?"

"About a lot of things."

And he wouldn't say anything more as he gathered up the newspapers and took them to the garbage can.



--- Chapter 24 (Paul): Do Better ---



On Friday night, when we were out to dinner, I missed half of what Michael was saying to me because I was so busy watching Veronica and Susan talking animatedly together. We were seated at a round-top table and Veronica was to my left and Michael was to my right, with Susan in between them. We thought it'd be easier for the women to talk if they were next to each other instead of across from each other.

"How's the baby?" I asked Michael when I forced myself to drag my eyes away from Veronica. But as soon as the question was out, my eyes went right back to my wife, trying to hear everything she and Susan were talking about.

"She's disgusting, smelly, never stops crying and has basically ruined our lives. We're thinking of giving her away."

"That's good to hear," I said absently, straining to hear what Veronica was saying in such low tones when it dawned on me what he'd said, and my head snapped toward him. "What did you say?"

Michael laughed and grinned at me.

"Didn't think you were paying attention to me. Your wife will fill you in after dinner. Let them talk. And for the record, the baby's good. Getting fat and sassy, as Susan says," he smiled. "It was all I could do to get her to leave the baby with Gertrude -- you met her once. Susan's an incredible mother, but she worries about leaving Trudy. Suze told me it took so long to be blessed with our baby that it's hard to leave the house without her -- but this is a good first step."

"How is it being a dad?"

I wasn't sure where that question had come from or why I'd asked. Normally, Michael and I would be talking about our golf games and setting up a time to play or talking about our Thunderbirds. After I'd loaned my car to Michael one weekend in exchange for him helping me with my short game, he'd ended up getting a red Thunderbird.

Fortunately, he didn't even think about it.

"I really like it," he said. "Trudy gets more interesting every day, and she looks just like Susan, so of course she's the prettiest baby in the world. Watching her smile is like seeing a miniature Susan smile."

I smiled at his blatant adoration.

"Babies do change your life, but in a good way," he said, inclining his head toward Veronica. "You'll soon see."

The waitress stopped by to take our orders, and Michael ordered for Susan and I ordered for Veronica. The ladies had already looked over the menus and informed us as to what they wanted. Much of dinner consisted of talk about babies, working and the wonderful Mrs. Wilson. When the evening ended, the ladies were already making plans for another night out, and Michael looked pleased as punch at that.

On the way home after our dinner, I asked Veronica what she thought about Susan.

"Susan's lovely," she said right away. "So kind and smart, and she takes her baby with her when she makes her Avon calls. She has a wonderful older friend, Mrs. Engel, who lives with them, and she walks Trudy in the baby buggy while Susan collects her orders. That made me think...Ma could come over when I sew or I could go home with the baby and sew there. Oh, I feel like making clothes for women is possible after talking to her."

I ignored the urge to correct her when she referred to her parents' house as .

"You'll make it work, I have no doubt."

"And Susan's so pretty! No wonder Mrs. Wilson recommended her as a model for the Avon catalog."

"You're even prettier," I said without thinking...and paid for it immediately.

"Pretty enough to be with for one night, I suppose, but not good enough for anything more."

"That was my mistake in ever thinking that," I said. "You're a good woman, Roni, but I was too busy thinking I needed something else to recognize just how good a woman you are."

"You were too busy thinking you needed else, you mean."

"I wish I could deny it, but I can't. Roni, I promise you, I'm going to do better."





Working in the baby's room on Saturday, I carted almost everything in the room to the attic, where Veronica and I could sort through it after the baby was born. Some things, like the twin bed, we'd keep for when our baby outgrew the crib. The dresser would stay in the nursery, as would the rocking chair and the small bookshelf, all pieces I'd saved from my father's house.

"We just need a crib," I said.

"And a bassinette," Roni told me firmly, as if she was afraid I'd say no.

"Whatever you think we'll need, we'll get," I assured her.

That earned me the suspicious look again that I knew was deserved but I still hated it.

We talked about wall colors, and Roni said she wanted a pale green room, and she'd found a wallpaper border with circus animals on it that matched a mobile she'd found to hang on the crib.

"Did you find a crib?" I asked.

Roni nodded. "I didn't buy it yet."

"Let's go find the color you want for the walls, and then we'll go shopping for the furniture. We'll have everything delivered, so I'll have time to paint first."

Shopping with Roni was all about her tells. She'd shown me the crib she'd picked out, but I could tell she didn't love it, so I suggested we look around the store just in case she found one she liked better. Roni would look at one crib, then see the price tag and move on. But when she trailed her fingers along the crib before moving to the next one, I knew she especially liked it. The same thing happened with the bassinettes.

We circled back to all the furniture she'd moved on from for being too expensive, and I told her quietly to choose the ones she really liked.

"They're too much," she protested.

"Roni, they're not that much more than the first one you showed me, and I want you to get what you want. It's fine."

After some serious hesitation, she made her selections, and I wrote a check for them and arranged for delivery.

"You like what you picked out?" I asked her on the way home.

"Very much," she said. "Thank you."

"This is for our baby. You don't have to thank me."

"I feel like I do."





When Roni and I walked into her parents' house that Sunday, everyone looked at me and stopped talking, taking in my still-black eyes and slightly swollen nose.

"I thought you said the jackass wouldn't be back for a while," her grandfather practically shouted at her Aunt Catriona.

She shrugged, unperturbed by his loud volume. "I'm just as surprised as you are, Da. Thought you boys had run him off for good last Sunday."

Patrick came up to me. "You think showing up today was a good idea after last week, boyo?"

"Yes. Your in-law's car needs a brake job, and I want to get it done today. I have everything I need to do it in the trunk of my car."

That surprised Patrick, and he didn't bother trying to hide it.

"Maybe you're not completely useless as a man. The husband part...that's something time will tell, but I'm not holding my breath. Come on, boys," he called to his sons and brothers-in-law, "let's watch the lawyer attempt a brake job."

I wasn't sure he could infuse the word with more contempt, and I reminded myself that Rome wasn't built in a day. Roni's family seemed quite capable of holding a well-deserved grudge for ages.

Once again, I took off my shirt, leaving me in my undershirt as the men in Roni's family gathered around me. I was relieved they seemed to be keeping their fists to themselves but realized that could change in an instant.

"Did you go to work this week with your eyes looking like that?" Brendan started in on me first.

"I did."

"That wasn't what I was expecting you to say," Liam snickered. "Would have thought you'd be calling in sick to avoid the humiliation."

I shook my head. "Just told them I was working on a car and banged my nose."

"Not sure if I'm more surprised you admitted to working on a car or that they believed the obvious lie."

"Doesn't matter. Now, either help or get out of my way."

"You won't finish this before the meal's ready," Patrick taunted.

"I know. I'll finish it after."

I got to work with all the men offering their opinions and making comments, but none of them helped. After an hour, Laoise came to call us inside. I wiped off my hands as best I could on some rags, and called out to Patrick.

"Now you want to keep me from my wife's pork chops and mashed potatoes?"

"Just for a minute."

"Got no time to waste. Get to it. Nothing worse than a cold meal."

"I just wanted to thank you."

"For beating on you?" He looked skeptical.

"For what you said. Everything you accused me of was true. Wish I could deny it, but I can't." I met his hostile eyes. "My Dad's not here to set me straight, but I think you said everything he would have said to me. So, thank you."

His eyes narrowed and I felt as if he was weighing my sincerity. He finally nodded.

"There's Lava soap in the basement next to the utility sink," he said and walked inside.

I hurried inside and down to the basement to clean up. After scrubbing my hands with the abrasive soap, I looked at them, wondering how many thousands of times Dad had to remove grease from his hands. Too many to count.



I buttoned my shirt as I headed upstairs, not wanting to delay the meal. I was largely ignored as everyone ate their pork chops and mashed potatoes, which meant I could be more of an observer as this large and loud family talked and joked with one another, sharing laughs and old stories. It was such a contrast to the quieter meals my father and I had shared, him being too tired to talk much many nights.

After the meal ended, I excused myself to finish the brake job, the men once again watching me. Ignoring their jests for the most part, I worked steadily until it was complete. I went inside, leaving them to try out the new brakes, and scrubbed again in the basement. When I came upstairs, this time I sought out my mother-in-law.

"Could I have a word with you, please?" I asked her. "Privately?"

Her lips tightened and she nodded to her sisters and mother. Roni, her sisters and cousins were out on the front porch talking, so I headed out back with her mother.

"What do you need?" she asked curtly.

"I did something that I'm not proud of --"

"I imagine there's an entire list of things you've done you're not proud of that would rival the Sears catalog in size."

"You'd be right," I said. "So I'm going to do better."

"And how can I be of help?"

I knew this wasn't going to go well, and rightly so.

"One night, Roni was singing a lullaby to the baby, and I told her to stop."

Her hand flashed and hit me on the side of the head so fast I didn't even realize she'd moved.

"Did you use up all your brain in lawyer school?" she actually hissed at me like a stray cat. "You don't tell a woman with child to stop that!"

"You're right. I shouldn't have."

Then I explained what I wanted, and her face became guarded and suspicious, a look I was very familiar with because it was the same one her daughter favored me with on a daily basis.

"We'll see how serious you are about this. You stop by here for an hour after work, say for five days, I'm thinking. That should be enough time for someone who was smart enough to become a lawyer."

"Thank you," I said. "I'll be here."



My chance came about a week later.

Roni was on the couch one evening reading a magazine, one hand resting lightly on her belly. Sitting beside her on the couch, I put my hand over hers, wondering if I'd feel the baby move, and she looked at me questioningly.

Then I opened my mouth and sang to her and the baby an Irish lullaby my mother-in-law had taught me. Roni's eyes were wide, but she didn't interrupt me.

"I'm trying to do better, Roni," I explained.

When she still didn't say anything, I got up and went to my room, wondering if the lullaby had been a mistake.



--- Chapter 25 (Veronica): Pay Dearly ---



Paul sitting beside me on the couch and putting his hand over mine was surprising enough, but when he began singing an Irish lullaby to me, I wondered if his body had been taken over by aliens. My brother had loaned me the Jack Finney book, , not too long ago and the book had been so creepy, I almost hadn't finished it because I started looking at everyone around me wondering if they were real or aliens.

Now I was wondering if maybe it was a true story and not fiction because Paul was singing to me. He have been taken over by aliens. Singing in a wonderfully rich baritone voice, his large hand warm on mine, he kept trying to catch my eyes but I couldn't look at him. I still remembered the sting of his words to me when he caught me singing to the baby.





So I made sure to never sing to my baby again if he was at the house. Now his words poured over me, pure and true, as if he'd never told me singing to an unborn baby was ridiculous.



His hand pressed mine, and I wondered if he could feel the baby kicking beneath my hand. I also wondered if he could tell how taken aback I was.



Something about the way he emphasized certain words reminded me of the way my mother and aunts sang this song. It was comforting, but it created a familiarity between us that I wasn't ready for because it hadn't been there before.



He wasn't just singing words, he was them, putting meaning and emphasis behind each syllable. When he finished, when he told me he was trying to do better, I had no idea what to say as I sat there in stunned amazement.  came to mind, but I didn't think he'd understand the reference so I kept my mouth shut so I didn't blurt that out. I'd never seen Paul read anything but law journals and law books, so it wasn't unreasonable to think he would have no idea about Jack Finney's book.

After he walked away, I sat on the couch, feeling the baby kick me, wondering if he'd always known the song or if he'd learned it recently. Eventually, I went up to my bedroom, got ready for bed and hummed the Irish lullaby as I settled into my pillows and fell asleep.

Paul was off to work by the time I got up the next morning, and with nothing pressing to do, I took the bus to my parents' house. Ma wasn't at home, so I wandered next door to Aunt Catriona's and found my mother and aunts having their usual morning coffee klatch.

They got me a cup of coffee along with welcoming hugs, and I sat next to Aunt Laoise, enjoying the familiar feel of my family surround me like a soft blanket.

"You've got something to say," Granny said, reading my face.

"Paul sang me  last night."

Not one of them seemed surprised at my announcement, one I thought would shock them the way it had me.

"You knew?" I asked them.

"Who do you think taught him?" Granny said, pointing at my mother.

"Why would you do that?"

"Because he asked me to," Ma said as if that explained everything. "Laoise played the piano for us and Catriona sang with me. Ma critiqued. He has a nice voice, and he caught on so quickly I wondered if he had a bit of Irish in him."

"How'd he do?" Granny asked.

"He has a nice voice. The way he sang it reminded me of you. I should have known."

"The boy doesn't know whether he's coming or going," Ma said. "But I can understand how he became a lawyer with the way he memorized the words straight off. He's smart even if he's incredibly stupid."

"Did he say why he wanted to learn the lullaby?"

Ma's face looked grim. "He said he told you to stop singing to the baby."

I knew her looks and this wasn't a good one. "What'd you do to him when he told you?"

"Smacked him in the head and told him what I thought of that. Then he explained to me what he wanted to do to make that up to you and to show you he was sorry."

I knew he'd meant it as an apology. Everything he was doing lately was to apologize for the way he'd treated me, trying to make up for it, I supposed, but I didn't see why. I was willing to be polite and nice as we raised our child, so it seemed unnecessary.

"I don't understand him."

The hens cackled and Aunt Catriona held up three fingers to me. "They're not so hard to understand. Keep them happy at the table with your food and a beer."

"Keep your home clean and organized," Aunt Laoise said.

"And behind closed doors...well, you keep them very happy there and that goes a long way, shall we say," Ma winked at me.

Ma!" I exclaimed as the hens began cackling again.

Out of that list, I was only keeping the house clean and organized and had no plans for anything else right now. Eventually I'd start cooking for him again, but only because I wanted our baby to grow up having family meals. My family's dinners had always been lively, and I mourned the loss of that for our baby who was destined to be an only child.

That night when Paul got home, he came over to me where I was resting on the sofa.

"Have you eaten?" he asked.

"Not yet."

"Let's go out," he said, and there was a lilt in his voice.

"Why?" I asked suspiciously.

"Two reasons," he said. "First, I've been realizing lately that we've done everything backwards. We found out we were having a baby and then we got married. We never dated."

"Because I wasn't good enough," I reminded him.

"You were always better than good enough, Roni. I just refused to see it."

"And you made it clear you didn't want to know me since I was a wife."

"I want to rectify that mistake. I'm trying to."

"It's not necessary," I said. "We can get along fine without all of this effort."

He sat beside me. "If you were on the stand in a courtroom, I could come at you with all sorts of arguments and objections and win my case. But I lose my ability to think straight around you, Roni, to the point that I fumble everything -- my words, my thoughts, my ability to be logical. I'm asking you to let me take you out on dates so we can get to know each other."

"And what then? We get to know each other and what happens, counselor?"

"Maybe you'll find out what happened to me in seventh grade when I tried out for the baseball team. Maybe I'll find out who your first crush was. I don't have all the answers, but we can figure out what happens as we go."

He was confusing me again, so I skirted the issue.

"You said there were reasons to go out tonight. What's the second one?"

His smile was triumphant. "I got word this afternoon that all of the defendants in your lawsuit agreed to settle out of court. Not one of them wanted the case to go to trial, and they're all about to pay dearly for slandering you."



--- Chapter 26 (Veronica): I Have Some News ---



I'm not sure if I was stunned from the news about the lawsuit or if I was secretly thinking about what Paul had said about dating that made me agree to go out to dinner, but one hour later, I found myself sitting across from him at a very nice restaurant.

After he ordered for us, he raised his glass of wine to me, and I raised mine back.

"Congratulations on winning the lawsuit," he said, and tapped his glass against mine.

"I didn't win it," I said. "I think they didn't want to face you in court."

He told me how much the various settlements would bring and I tried to take it in stride, as if that much money was common.

"And since your husband is the lawyer, no legal fees will come out of the settlement."

He gave me that devilish, beguiling grin that he'd given me the first night I'd met him, the one that transformed his face from stern to unbearably handsome. For a moment, I just sat spell bound, thinking no man should be such a flutter bum.  I set down my wine glass after the little sip I'd taken and ran my fingers along the edge of the table.

"What will you do with the money?" I asked him.

He tilted his head to the side, then leaned across the table toward me.

"Wrong question," he said softly. "What will do with the money?"

He was my husband, and as such he had power over that settlement. I'd assumed he'd assert that control, as was his legal right. So what he'd said was wholly unexpected.

"I...I haven't...what are you saying?"

"Roni, it's your money. Not mine. You were the injured party, so it's yours to do with as you will."

I had to test that, to see if he really meant it.

"What if I said I wanted to give all of the money to my parents?"

"Then we'll get them a bank draft as soon as we receive the money from the lawsuit."

Was he serious? He sounded serious, but he couldn't be. Could he?

"What if I said I wanted to use the settlement to start my sewing business?"

"I'd advise you to think about how you want to do this. You could keep it small and do all the designing and sewing yourself, or you could rent a building in town, hire some seamstresses to sew your designs, leaving you free to create your dresses or skirts or whatever you want and then sell your clothing from the store. You could create your own dress shop, but you'd need help to fill it."

A store? I'd never seriously thought of anything as grand as that. I thought I could make some dresses for people like Mrs. Wilson and her friends. But, once again, one sentence got my mind whirling.

"I could also rent space in my store to other women who like to design and sew," I said, thinking out loud.

"You'd be like the Avon of clothing by providing jobs and ways for women to make some money," he said, and he wasn't mocking me.

I'd never thought of my designing and sewing clothes in a larger sense, but now I had the means to adjust my dream and maybe help some other women at the same time. The thought made me shiver a bit at the possibilities. Ma and my aunts were excellent seamstresses, and I trusted them. They might be interested, and they might know some other ladies who designed their own clothes and who wanted to sell them to make some money.

I looked at Paul suspiciously. "You'll really let me have the money? You won't change your mind?"

"Roni, I know you have no trust in me, but think of it like this if it helps. You were my client, and I wouldn't take a settlement away from a client. You're actually ahead because most clients would have to pay our fees after the lawsuit was settled."

"I can pay you," I said in a rush. "I don't want you to feel I took advantage of you."

Paul shook his head at me. "Roni, you're my . You didn't take advantage of me, and you're definitely not paying me."

"I'm your wife in name only, so it seems only fair --"

"I'm going to change that."

"Change what?" I demanded.

At that moment, the waiter came to our table and served my meal and then Paul's.

"Change what?" I repeated more quietly when he was gone.

"I want you to be my wife in every sense of the word."

I sat back in my seat. "Is that why you're being so nice? So you can... with me?"

Paul's lips twitched. "No, that's not why I'm being nice. I told you, I'm trying to  better and  better."

Needing to know, I finally asked him a question that had been on my mind since Mrs. Wilson's tea party. "How would I know if I had the crabs?"

For a moment, Paul coughed into his napkin, his face turning beet red, but then he looked at me and I saw he wasn't angry but .

"Roni, I've never had them, so that means couldn't have them."

"But how do you know if you have the crabs? Maybe you had them and didn't know."

"You'd know, Roni. I promise, you'd know. Now, could we eat without any more talk about If you have more questions, I'll answer them after we finish our meals."

I nodded, relieved at his assurance that I wasn't somehow unknowingly infested.

We were about halfway through our meals when I looked up. "If I wanted to rent a building, you'd have to sign the contract."

"And I would, after we made sure the rent was competitive and fair and we had the building inspected."

"You'd really allow me to start a business? You don't mind?"

"Do I want my wife working? Not particularly. My mother had to work in a factory after she married my father until she got fired for being pregnant with me. He never felt good about her working in such dirty, difficult conditions and blamed himself for her dying so young."

"But you said --"

"I'm not done answering, Roni. With that said, as long as you aren't working yourself to death, I don't mind you starting a business. I just want you to be mindful of your time and your health."

Paul had been honest in his answer, but he still planned to support me in whatever way I wanted to start a business. He was leaving that up to me, and I was more than surprised.

"There's that suspicious look again," he said. "But you don't need to be. I'm telling you how I feel, but I'm also telling you that I'll support you."

"What if my shop doesn't do well?"

"Then you'll be able to say you tried."

"You won't be mad about the money?"

"No, Roni."

"Most men wouldn't give their wives the money."

"I was  when you met me. I'm trying to do better for you."

"Why?"

"Because what little I've gotten to know about you, I like. And that makes me want to know more about you," he said with a rueful smile. "I'd really like to earn a smile from you again someday, Roni."



The next morning, the phone rang and I was delighted to hear Mrs. Wilson's voice on the line. Paul had left for some interviews before I woke up, so I was alone in the house with some housekeeping to look forward to.

"Are you at home this morning?" she asked, her voice tickled about something.

"Yes, especially if you're coming over," I said happily, mentally reviewing what I had to offer her. Fortunately, I'd made some jam muffins an hour ago, but I needed to start a fresh pot of coffee. "I have some news and a couple of ideas I'd like to discuss with you."

"I'll be over within the hour," she said. "And Roni, I'm looking forward to our talk because I also have some delicious to share with you."



--- Chapter 27 (Veronica): Legal Circles ---



I had everything ready by the time Mrs. Wilson arrived to share her with me. We hugged, and then she looked me over, much like my mother did, to make sure I looked healthy and was eating well.

"You look beautiful, Roni."

"Thank you," I said. "Please have a seat, and I'll get you some coffee. Those are fresh jam muffins on the table."

"My absolute favorite," she laughed in delight as she sat down.

In no time, we both had our coffees and were talking animatedly.

"Do you want to go first?" Mrs. Wilson asked me. "Or shall I?"

"Oh, please, you go first," I urged her. "I can't wait to hear your ."

"Where should I start? With Mrs. Nelson?"

"Yes," I encouraged her.

"Well, Mrs. Nelson of the eight-pound baby born prematurely at five months hasn't been seen much in public and definitely not at any events or dinners since invitations have seemingly dried up. Judge Nelson isn't happy with his wife as it's an election year for him and his opponent is...pressing his advantage, running on a platform."

"That's not going to make Judge Nelson happy if he loses."

"I think they'd move away from here if he doesn't win re-election," Mrs. Wilson said. "As the incumbent, he's expected to win easily and it would be an embarrassment to lose to a basically unknown opponent."

"Oh, dear," I said.

"And with the word out that they both were involved in your defamation lawsuit, that and some unimpressed editorials about him have further hurt his credibility."

"My word."

"Now Mrs. Lane of the broken pearls in the backseat-poison ivy in unmentionable places-caught under the bleachers is also having a difficult time, poor girl. Her invitations to social events have also dried up and her husband's law firm wasn't pleased that he'd been named in a defamation suit and his career is, for the foreseeable future, a bit stalled out. Considering they just had to pay you a great deal of money and liquidate assets to do so, I think it's going to take them some time to recover, and moving about in society will be the last thing on their minds."

To hide my smile, I took a sip of my coffee.

"That brings us to Mrs. Hill and her two children whose father was...undetermined. Her husband got word of the possibility that the two children weren't his, so he demanded a blood test. As we know, blood typing is best for excluding men as the father, and he discovered he excluded since his blood type was incompatible with the mother's and children's, unfortunately."

"That's so sad for the children," I said. "And for him."

"It's extremely sad. For the time being, Mrs. Hill and her children went to her parents in Kansas while Mr. Hill decides what to do. As we know, in a divorce case, a man must provide proof of his wife's infidelity, and he now has that. He does love those children, so that may keep him from divorcing Mrs. Hill. We shall see." She paused to take a drink of her coffee. "In the future, I believe Mrs. Hill will be much more reluctant to spread lies about someone. Her parents agreed to pay the lawsuit settlement to you since Mr. Hill refused to pay her share and paid only his portion, since he did, in fact, help to spread the rumors."

"This has had so many far-reaching effects."

"And still more to come. Mrs. Walker whose own family tree had a lady of the evening has found herself completely ostracized after spreading those lies about you while her own background was anything but pristine. No one wants her at their parties or charitable events, which means her husband has also been blacklisted as thoroughly as if he was a Hollywood star with communist sympathies."

"I cannot believe all of this."

"Mr. Walker is currently seeking employment at out-of-state law firms so he and his family can move there and escape the scuttlebutt here, although he was thoroughly dismayed to find out about his wife's family's past. They are no longer sharing a room. My housekeeper's cousin is their housekeeper, but probably not for long as they need to cut corners to make up for the settlement. Fortunately, I have a friend who is seeking a housekeeper, so I suspect their housekeeper will have a new job within the week."

"That makes me happy to hear."

"Absolutely. And the worst part is had these two-faced women kept quiet, not one of them would be in their current predicaments."

"I just don't understand women like that."

Her hand covered mine. "Because you're not like that, my dear friend, which makes what they did to you all the more reprehensible."

I nodded, as she took another jam muffin and set it on her plate before looking up at me, eyes dancing.

"And now we get to Barbara...dear, dear Barbara would love to escape overseas once again, but her father can't afford to send her after he had to pay you the settlement. Unfortunately, between living beyond his means and Barbara's expensive tastes, he was hard pressed to come up with the money."

"No," I breathed. "He should have boatloads of money. He's an owner of a successful law firm."

"We aren't sure how much longer will be true. The other two partners were not happy that he fired Paul without their approval. Frankly, Mr. Hall doesn't bring in much money at all, and he fired their workhorse who almost single-handedly kept their firm afloat and made it as successful as it is. Your husband is a well-known litigator, Roni, maybe more so than you realize, which is why he always had standing offers at other firms."

I'd known he was a good lawyer, but Mrs. Wilson was right. I had no idea exactly how respected Paul was in legal circles. I'd only seen him in action as a man and a husband after I married him, and that had left me completely unimpressed.



That I couldn't deny. He had been trying, but his efforts still made me somewhat suspicious. I thought of him singing the lullaby to me and that over anything else he'd been doing had spoken to my heart. Maybe he'd never be a great husband, but I was hopeful he'd be a good father despite his initial plans to float in and out of our child's life at his whim.

"Since dear, dear Barbara is now being referred to in polite circles as , she's desperate to get out of town. She's been holed up in her father's house pretty much since the tea," Mrs. Wilson was saying. "The partners at her father's law firm are trying to buy Mr. Hall out. They don't want him to bring down the firm, and since they're trying to entice Paul to return, they think their chances will be better if Mr. Hall is no longer a factor in the equation."

"They're trying to get Paul back?"

That was news to me.

"Oh, yes. Paul's the goose that laid the golden egg, and they not only want him back, they him back. I wouldn't be surprised if they sweetened the deal by offering him a position as a partner since there may be a sudden vacancy."

I wondered why Paul hadn't mentioned this to me.

"And because dear, dear Barbara wants to get far, far away from here, Mr. Hall may take their offer to buy him out, so he and his daughter can afford to move to a place where no one knows them."

Her smile was a bit vindictive.

"Unfortunately, the legal community is smaller than he might think. Emmett told me that one's misdeeds do have an odd way of getting around in legal circles."

"I'll have to trust his word since I have no idea about that," I admitted.

"The important thing, Roni, is that your reputation is intact and those responsible for trying to besmirch your honor have paid and paid dearly. This will be a lesson not soon forgotten. Justice most often comes in the courtroom, but it also can come at a tea party."



--- Chapter 28 (Paul): She Looked At Me ---



My father and I once painted our kitchen yellow when I was a freshman in high school.

"Your mother loved the color," he said as he carried the paint can into the kitchen. "But it's starting to fade and look dingy so it needs a new coat."

I'd stirred the paint and then we began applying the color to the walls. It was hideous, a bright school-bus yellow that was nothing like the soft, buttery yellow on the walls. My father stepped back and looked at it critically.

"It's probably just because it hasn't dried yet," he said optimistically, and even though I didn't think that was the problem, we painted the whole kitchen.

A few hours later, when the paint had dried, Dad shook his head. It still looked like a school bus had crashed into the room.

"Paul, I think that we're going to need another trip to the hardware store and we're going to have to repaint the kitchen next weekend."

We had done exactly that, finally achieving the buttery yellow my mother had loved. Dad could have chosen to not fix it -- what did the two of us care what color the walls were? -- but he'd done it to make my mother, who wasn't even with us any longer, happy. To make this small gesture in her memory.

For the last few weeks, I'd been discovering that fixing my mistakes with Veronica wasn't as easy as painting over a mistake. I couldn't just cover them up, but I was trying to do better, to show her I could and would be a good husband and father to her and our child. To show her I was committed to our marriage.

I was also discovering that the smiles that had once been so abundant and easily given and then had dried up were occasionally making an appearance again. I liked every hard-won smile and slowly realized I was actively trying to make Veronica smile on a daily basis.

If I could achieve that and get her to talk to me again, I felt that would make our marriage much more friendly and comfortable. So smiles and talking were the goal, and when I could coax either one from her, I got a feeling of elation that winning a difficult court case couldn't even compare to.

I figured if I could ever get her to call me Paul again, I'd have it made in the shade. So far, however, I was still .

When Veronica would talk with me, I was finding out random details about her earlier years. She'd loved to play pranks on her older brothers, had always enjoyed sewing, and had been in a high school play once and her Granny Orla had helped with her lines.

With each piece of information I learned, I found myself wanting to know more because Veronica was not only a good woman, she was as fascinating as I'd first found her. Then it was her looks and laughter that had drawn me and now I was discovering how much more there was to her. A couple of times at work, I'd picked up the phone to call her just to say hello, then I'd quickly put the receiver down because she'd probably hang up on me.

When we'd gone to look at five potential buildings on Main Street for her store she'd decided to open up, I followed her around, noting what made her smile, what made that little V between her eyebrows appear and what she actually shook her head at.

"This is the one," she said after we toured the fourth building.

"Why?" I asked her, curious. It wasn't the newest building, it wasn't the biggest and it hadn't been renovated recently, so it still had old wooden floors instead of the nice, new linoleum that was everywhere now.

She spun slowly around, her arms out to the sides. "It has character that the others lack," she said. "I can see everything laid out so clearly. This building feels...happy to me."

Veronica was so sure about the place she didn't want to look at the fifth one, and I'd told her I'd have it inspected before we signed a contract. I didn't even think to question her.

"My father can look at the electrical, and Liam can take a look at the plumbing. Anything I need built, Grandy and Brendan can take care of."

I put the wheels in motion for that, and her grandfather, father and brothers and I walked through the place two evenings later.

"This is what my daughter wants?" Patrick said.

"It is," I told him.

"Then we'll make it happen. It's a solid building, electrical is in good shape."

"Plumbing's sound," Liam said.

"Then I'll get the contract signed, and we can start making whatever improvements she wants. Painting, a wall to separate the sewing area from the store front, that sort of thing."

"How's the new job?" Patrick asked me.

"Fine," I said. I'd accepted the most lucrative offer, thinking it would be best for my family, and had ruthlessly shut down any thoughts of doing something else. I had Veronica and a baby to support, and she was going to be busy making her dream come true so mine would wait.

"My wife told me what you'd asked her for help with," Patrick said as we were walking out of the building.

"You really going to do it?" Liam asked.

"Sounds like you decided to stop being a jackass and become a real man," Veronica's grandfather said loudly.

"The hens are having trouble keeping their mouths shut," Brendan said.

"Only three more days," I told them, thinking of all the behind-the-scenes work that had been going on.

Early Saturday morning, the hens arrived at our house, and I was hustled out of it, already dressed in my suit.

"What's going on?" Veronica asked me as I moved toward the front door.

"Something I should have done from the start," I told her. "And I'm sorry I didn't, but I'm trying to do better, Roni, and this is something I can fix."

"I still don't understand."

"Meet me at the church in an hour," I said, "for our convalidation ceremony."

Before she could do more than gasp, I walked out the door, hoping this was something she still wanted. I'd known how important it was to her and her family that we be married in the Catholic church and in my anger at the situation, in my plans to annul our civil marriage, I'd refused and married Veronica at the courthouse. For a good Catholic girl like my wife, that was a huge blow to her, but I hadn't cared.

But I thought about that yellow kitchen and what my father was willing to do for a good woman who would never again know what color her kitchen was, and I'd known I could  with our marriage.

I left Veronica to the hens to get her ready for the ceremony in the white dress they'd made her. This was no mere blessing of our civil marriage, but a ceremony to make our marriage a sacramental one. It was a new act of consent, the priest had explained to me when I'd sat down with him.

.

I'd reluctantly, grudgingly agreed to marry Veronica before; today was me telling her that I was willingly marrying her this time.

Her father, grandfathers, uncles, brothers and cousins all gathered in a little room off the sanctuary with me and we all had a little taste of the whiskey. One of her younger cousins who'd been sent to keep watch came running into the room after we'd all had a few tastes.

"She's here!" he said.

"Time for me to walk my daughter up the aisle," Patrick said, clapping me on the shoulder. "I think your father would approve of you this day."

I walked into the sanctuary and stood in front of the altar, and a few minutes later, Veronica walked toward me on her father's arm. She was lovely in a long white dress, her red hair swept up off her shoulders. As Veronica drew closer to the altar, she looked at me.

And smiled.





Author's note: This is an exciting week for KU releases! If you're looking for something good to read,  just released ! Here is a brief description from KU:





--- Chapter 29 (Veronica): Promises ---



Once Paul walked out of the house, the hens swarmed around me after Paul said a word I never thought I'd hear him say -- -- and they unveiled the dress they'd made for me, a lacy, lovely bit of froth and dreams.

"You'll go to the church, then?" my Granny Orla asked.

"He's a fine looking man, like a movie star," Granny Mona commented. "Bit slow, but he got there."

I realized all of the hens were looking at me, seriously wondering if I would meet Paul at the church.

"I'm going to the church," I said, exasperated.

"Then let's get you ready," my mother gave the order, and they all jumped into motion.

Two of my cousins, who were well-known for working with hair, attacked my head with a brush and a comb and began working their magic, barking out orders to go heat up the curling iron on the stove, while my one sister held about a thousand bobby pins in her hand. My other sister held the aerosol Spray Net can, and I wondered if one can would be enough. While they pulled and twisted my hair, my cousin applied foundation to my face, then added some rouge, pale pink eyeshadow, eyeliner and some cake mascara.

"You can put your lipstick on after you get into your dress," Aunt Laoise told me as Aunt Catriona held up a mirror to me to see my hairdo and makeup. My cousins had done a simple side part and had formed a swoop over my forehead and curling the rest of my hair, all pushed to one side.

Four of them helped me step into my dress, with my mother buttoning it up the back. They all stood back and smiled approvingly.

"You're a beautiful bride, Roni," my mother said, tears in her eyes.

"This is a beautiful dress."

"One last thing," my cousin Maureen said and set a small hat on my head that had a shoulder-length veil attached to it, securing it with two combs.

My grannies nodded, and everyone else exclaimed and . Aunt Catriona handed me my pink lipstick and held the mirror again while I slicked it over my lips. Siobhan handed me a tissue to blot it and then did a tooth check to make sure they were shiny white. My mother gave me a bouquet of white roses as I slipped on the pumps they'd brought me, and in record time we were heading toward the church in four different cars.

"Nervous?" Siobhan asked me.

"Not really," I admitted. "We're already married."

"And now you will be in the eyes of the Church," she said and squeezed my hand.

"I be more nervous?"

"No, Roni. He's already nervous enough for all of us."

"Paul's never  nervous," I said, thinking of the times he'd coolly walked out of the house on court days.

"You'll see," she said sagely.

Before long, our cars pulled up to the Church parking lot and one of my young cousins went running into the church, obviously playing lookout, no doubt being promised a shiny dime from Dad.

Five minutes later, Dad and I stood behind the double doors leading into the sanctuary.

"You don't have to do this," Dad said, patting my hand where it clutched the crook of his arm.

"Did you...when you took him out back, did you threaten Paul to get him to do this?"

"Veronica!" my father said. "You think I would a man to stand before God in his holy church?"

"Yes," I said.

My father laughed quietly.

"Well, I didn't and I wouldn't. This was all his idea. He came and talked with the hens, got them all fired up, and your mother went to the priest with him. The hens began working on your dress right away and hoped you wouldn't stop by the house unexpectedly since lace and parts of the dress were all over."

Lucky for them I'd been busy making plans for my business.

"Yes, I want to do this," I assured him.

"Here we go," Dad said with one last pat to my hand as the doors opened.

My family filled the pews, and I smiled brightly as I saw them as well as the Wilsons, Michael and Susan, and some other couples Paul knew and I'd met one or two times. Then I dared a look at Paul, standing so tall and handsome in front of the altar, looking like the movie star my granny had called him.

He also looked extremely nervous, and I couldn't help but smile at him. He smiled back, making me feel better about what we were doing here. I thought I'd be in love when I stood in front of the priest, repeating vows to my husband, but even if Paul and I weren't in love, we were committing to our marriage. That was something.

He pressed a quick kiss to my lips and we turned to greet everyone, legally married in the eyes of the Church now. We took a few pictures with just the two of us and with my family, then walked out amidst a shower of rice from our guests.

"We're going to the Wilsons, who offered to host the reception at their house," Paul told me, walking me to his Thunderbird, "But would you mind making a slight detour first?"

His face was serious, and seeing this was important to him, I agreed. He helped me into the car, tucking my dress in carefully around me to keep it from getting caught in the door. Paul got in and started the car.

"This might seem kind of odd, but..."

"But what?"

"You'll see," he said. "I hope you don't get mad. That's not my intention."

A few minutes later, he drove through the open gates of Mount Hope cemetery, and I had a feeling why we were here.

Paul finally stopped the car, and looked at me.

"At the ceremony, while I was waiting for you to walk down the aisle to me... you'd walk down the aisle to me, I should say, I realized...I just...you have a big family, Roni."

"My Granny always said we reproduce like rabbits." Usually after she'd had a few .

That got a small smile from him before he got out of the car and came to my side to help me out. We walked to a single gravestone with his parents' names and their birth and death dates.

"These are my parents," he said softly. "I didn't know my mother, but my father always said she was a good woman. My father was a very good man."

"Mary Kathleen," I said with a soft smile. "It seems you and your father marry Irish girls."

"So we do," he said, then he put his hand on my back and looked at the gravestone. "Mom, Dad, this is Roni. My wife."

He looked back at me, chagrined.

"I'm sorry, Roni. This probably seems odd. I wasn't planning to do this, much less on the day we get married in the Church."

Placing my hand on his chest, I tried to tell him I understood. "I can't imagine not having my family with me, especially on a day like today. Thank you for bringing me here."

He placed his hand over mine on his chest, pressing it tightly as if to prevent me from pulling away.

"Roni, today, looking out at all your family, I was feeling for a moment that I didn't have a family any longer. Feeling alone like I hadn't since my father died. But then you smiled at me, and I realized something that I'd known but it really hit me at that moment."

"What's that?" I asked him.

"I have a family. I'm not alone anymore because you, the baby and I are a family. We made promises to each other today, and I want you to know I intend to keep them all."



--- Chapter 30 (Paul): I Knew More ---



When Veronica and I arrived at the Wilson's home, we were the last ones there and all of the guests began clapping as we walked in. Mrs. Wilson and the hens descended on us, engulfing Veronica in hugs, eventually tugging her away to see the wedding cake. Mrs. Wilson lingered behind a bit, and gave me an assessing look.

"I see you took my advice to heart."

"I did."

She'd echoed my father's words about doing better, but she'd also told me to  about being a bad husband to Veronica.

"My husband tells me that you accepted a position with a prestigious firm, a very good move for you, career-wise."

"I did, and I hope it will be."

"He also said you could have started your own law firm."

Maybe someday, I hoped. It had long been a dream of mine. A distant one, but it was still a dream of mine from the first time I'd entertained the thought of being lawyer.

"Maybe someday, when I've saved some money and feel secure enough that I could support my family if I hang out my own shingle," I said to her.

I wanted to shake myself when that finished coming out of my mouth. Why I was talking about money and dreams with Veronica's friend, I had no idea but I hoped she hadn't found my comment crass.

"You had the opportunity," she said pointedly, "given all of those people settling the lawsuit out of court."

"That money belongs to Veronica," I said firmly, "and we're using it to start her dress shop and whatever else she wants to do with it."

For some reason, that made her smile widely.

"Congratulations, Mr. Lowell. I do believe there's hope for you yet. You've married a true gem, and I'm pleased to see you're coming to not only understand that, but to it as well."

Then she walked off to join the hens and mingle with the other guests as I made my way through the room, keeping an eye on my bride, accepting the well-wishes of friends and family. I eventually made it to Veronica's side and briefly touched her back.

"You're not getting too tired, Roni?" I asked in a low voice. "Do you want to sit down?"

"We'll be sitting down for the luncheon very soon," she said. "Until then, I'm fine."

"Do you want a drink? Some water or a lemonade? Soda?"

"No, thank you," she said, giving me that suspicious look. It'd been aimed my way less frequently, but I still got it. Someday, I wouldn't. Someday, she'd trust me. "Let's go say hello to Michael and Susan."

We talked to everyone who attended the luncheon and accepted their well wishes. Every detail of the luncheon was perfect and elegant, and I knew that Helen Wilson had planned everything for her dear Veronica. It'd been important to her that my wife have a beautiful reception.



My wife had won Mrs. Wilson's friendship and loyalty just by being herself. Veronica didn't try to impress anyone, she wasn't swayed by social standing or wealth and she was kind unless someone was unkind to her. She was genuine, warm, and extremely likeable.

And now I had joined the ranks of those who wanted to do everything they could  to make Veronica happy. Getting that smile, that soft look in her eyes had becoming a motivating factor in my life.

I looked at her as she sat beside me in the Thunderbird.

"Happy?" I asked her.

She turned toward me. "Thank you for today. It meant a great deal to my family and to me."

"I know, and I'm sorry I denied you a church wedding when I insisted we get married in the courthouse."

"Today went a long way toward fixing that, Paul."

I almost ran the car up on the sidewalk hearing my name on her lips again.

"So I'm Paul again?" I didn't even care that she heard the elation in my voice.

Not a smile, but I got her grin. "Unless I'm angry with you. Or irritated. Or annoyed. Then you'll be and if you hear that, you better run."

"Understood. I'll try not to make you mad, Roni. Or irritated. Or annoyed."

"You won't be able to help it since you're a man. The hens have been preparing me for a husband all my life."

"Maybe I'll exceed expectations."

She looked away from me right after her grin dropped.

"What?"

"Nothing," she said softly.

There were times I wished I could peek into Veronica's head because I had no idea why she'd lost her smile.

I reached over and took her hand. "Please tell me what I did just now. I don't want to go back to when I just got back."

She took her hand from mine and held her bouquet with both hands, her fingers idly tracing the petals of one of the roses.

"Most married couples...I'm not saying I expect this because I don't...and I'm fine with us getting along and being amiable. I want you to understand that. You committing to this marriage is so important to me. It's all I expect."

"Roni, somewhere in all of that you were about to say something else."

"Can we just forget it?"

"Was it important to you?"

"I'm not sure how to answer that," she evaded. "Important? It was just...it was just something I hoped for. When I was younger."

"Tell me, Roni," I urged her.

My mind was trying to fill in the blanks.

...made love? I could definitely get behind that, but I was pretty sure Veronica hadn't been headed in that direction.

...went out as a couple? We'd been doing that more, and I could see that happening more after she had the baby.

But then my mind went in a different direction.





It finally clicked, and I realized what she was talking about.

Love.

Veronica had looked away when I said maybe I'd exceed expectations. Most married couples were in love, and the only way I could exceed Veronica's expectations was if I loved her.



I didn't know much of anything about love.



I was married to a good woman, a very good woman. She was sweet, kind, intelligent and funny, and talented, soft and beautiful. I wanted to make Veronica happy. I loved when she gave me her brilliant smiles. And recently I'd discovered I was willing to put her dreams ahead of my own.

Was that love?

I'd thought about the way I'd been so drawn to Veronica when I saw her at the nightclub. How I went back to her week after week. Had that been the start?

I'd trusted her. I never once questioned that the baby was mine.

From the start, I'd trusted her and had been drawn to her. I wondered if I hadn't been so set on my plan to annul the marriage if I would have fallen under her spell earlier.

I wasn't certain what love was, but I couldn't deny being infatuated with my wife. She fascinated me, and I found myself wanting to be around her all the time.

But was it love?

This was too important to rush the answer, so I knew I needed to research the answer. I'd start with Michael and then I'd go to her family.

Despite not knowing exactly what this was, I reached over and took my wife's hand and held it all the way until we got home.

"Stay there," I said to Veronica when I pulled into the car port.

I ran around to get her door then held her hand as we walked to the front porch. I unlocked the door and pushed it open, then scooped Veronica into my arms.

"You're going to throw out your back!" she laughed up into my face as I carried her easily into the house, liking her arms around my neck.

"I'm carrying my bride over the threshold," I informed her unnecessarily, smiling at her. "Welcome home, Mrs. Lowell."

Then I kissed my bride while she was so close, feeling happier than I ever remembered feeling, and I thought maybe I knew more about love than I realized.



--- Chapter 31 (Paul): I Knew ---



"We're ready to welcome baby Lowell," Veronica said to me, her voice happy.

We were standing in the doorway of the nursery, admiring the furniture I'd put together and all of the details and decorations she'd put into the room to make it cozy for the baby. My mother-in-law and Veronica's grannies had made the baby's layette and my wife said the hens would all work on some pink or blue clothes once the baby arrived.

"The baby will have more outfits than we know what to do with," she laughed. "I bet by the time I get out of the hospital, they'll have all the little outfits done."

I thought of the house without Veronica for more than a week and knew I'd be at the hospital until visiting hours were over each of those days. In the two months since our convalidation ceremony, we'd been easier with each other, more comfortable. One night I'd come home from a long day in court and Veronica had surprised me with dinner, and she'd cooked every night after.

I sat beside Veronica on the couch, watching TV every night. She laughed at , and she loved the . I preferred  and , but I didn't really care what we watched together. After we turned off the television, I'd put my hand on her belly and tell the baby it was time to sleep. Then I'd sing a lullaby, and lately Veronica had been singing with me so maybe I sang a little slower to make it last longer. When she looked up at me, I forgot the words sometimes and lost myself in those eyes of hers, then she'd smile at me and I'd have to stop singing and listen to her before I could pick up the song again.

Was this love?

Michael had looked at me like I'd lost my mind one Saturday morning when we were playing golf and I'd asked how he'd known he loved Susan.

"I just did," he sputtered, searching for words, not used to a conversation like this. "She...just being around her made me feel good inside. Happy. And when I thought of the rest of my life, I wanted her to always be with me because I realized that she was my entire life, everything important to me and nothing mattered without her. Now line up your putt. Your short game still needs work."

Veronica made me feel good inside.

She made me feel happy.

I always wanted her to be with me.

That was a start, but I needed more to go on. So I stopped by my in-laws' house after work one night and asked to speak to Patrick. We went outside and he stared at me, suspiciously, waiting for me to start talking.

"I need a taste for this conversation," I said, so he went into his shed and brought back the whiskey bottle. I took a healthy swig and he did, too.

"How did you know you loved your wife?"

His face actually softened.

"Being with her was like hearing angels singing. Glorious. Unexpected. Beautiful. I felt like I could do anything when I was with her. She made me feel stronger and more powerful than I'd ever felt in my life."

I understood everything he was saying.

He stepped closer and thumped me in the chest with the back of his hand. "Most important, she made me want to be a better man. Some women inspire you that way and it's a gift, boyo. It's a fecking gift you've been given. And when you look at a woman and see her as a precious treasure, when you know you'd do anything for her, when you know you'd protect her with your life, when your heart about beats itself out of your chest simply because you're near her, then you know."

So for the months following our ceremony, I paid attention to how I felt and reacted when I was around Veronica, realizing that not every person's definition of love was the same. Sometimes when Veronica gave me a certain glance over her shoulder, it felt like I'd forgotten how to breathe. I'd look over to see her laughing when something funny happened in a TV show. I watched her in the kitchen and admired her grace.

On Sundays, when we walked into church together, her gloved hand tucked inside my arm, I felt proud that I had such a good woman on my arm -- and I somehow knew my father had felt the same way about my mother.

I enjoyed the way her mind worked when we talked about world events, and I found myself sneaking looks at her  magazines to see what she found so interesting in them. When I set up my electric putting machine in the living room one night, she watched me sink about fifty percent of my putts and said she thought she could beat me. Not thinking she was serious, I handed her my putter and set a ball on the ground for her.

She sunk it. We kept going, and she said she wanted an ice cream cone if she won. Even as pregnant as she was, she beat me, laughing the whole time. Veronica was all about laughter, and I realized how that had been missing in my life until I met her.

"Do you forget I have a father, uncles, brothers and cousins who all play golf? Forget Michael helping you with your short game -- help you."

I'd kissed her swiftly on her lips, then grabbed her sweater and a scarf for her hair, and we'd gone to get ice cream. I think she knew I would have taken her for ice cream even if she'd lost. After that first wager, we putted together every night with her asking for some small goodie if she won: McDonald's fries and a shake, a Hershey's bar, a new scarf she'd seen at the five and dime, a teddy bear for the baby.

She never asked for anything but small things, which is why she was so surprised when I took her to the car dealership one Saturday morning. She was feeling miserable since she was now more than a week past her due date, so I thought I'd cheer her up.

"Oh," she said sadly, thinking we were about to turn in the Thunderbird. "I wish we could have had one last ride."

I smiled at her. "No, Roni. We're here to pick up your car, not trade this one in. I was thinking that with your business and the baby, you should have your own car."

"We're going to own two cars?" she asked, practically gasping, her eyes wide.

"Yes," I said. "I didn't use your settlement money, Roni. I'm making more than I did at the old firm, and the Thunderbird's paid for. I put a good amount down, and your car will be paid for in a year or less. Considering it's really the only payment we have, I'll pay it off even earlier."

"Paul! I can't believe this! Thank you!" she said, throwing her arms around my neck, and I hugged her back. I followed Roni home in her Ford Fairlane, thinking the sea sprite green and white car suited her with all of its shiny chrome and detailing.

On Sunday we drove it to her parents' house after church and her family came out to admire the shiny new car. She cheerfully took them all for  short rides around the block, and I noticed a few sour looks from the men.

"You bloody bastard," her uncle hissed at me. "Now the hens are going to be clucking after us to get them their own damn cars."

"What the hell were you thinking, boyo?" her father scowled at me. "We should take you out back again for this."

We avoided that scene because Veronica's car came into view, and she was honking the horn over and over. We all belatedly realized that Veronica wasn't driving, Laoise was, and Veronica was in the passenger seat. She pulled to a stop in the driveway, and all of the women except for Veronica piled out of the car.

"She started having contractions!" Catriona said. "She said she's been feeling off today."

"Take her to the hospital," her mother told me. "Give me the key to your house and I'll meet you there after I stop by your house and pack Roni's bag."

"The hospital?" I repeated stupidly.

"She's having the baby finally! Get her to the hospital!"

I fumbled the keys in my hands, and then fumbled them again when I tried to pick them up. Siobhan yanked them from my hands and took the house key off the ring, then handed the car key back to me.

"Now shoo!" Granny Orla said.

I got into the car and shooed.

"Roni, are you OK?" I asked once we were on our way.

"Yes," she gasped. "Just having another contraction. They came on so suddenly."

"We're almost there, Roni. Hang on."

We made it to the hospital and I helped her inside where a nurse came to take her to the maternity ward. I rushed back outside to park the car, then ran to the hospital and followed directions to the maternity floor.

"I'm Paul Lowell," I said to the nurse behind the desk. "My wife, Veronica Lowell, was just brought in."

"Yes, Mr. Lowell. She's being settled in her room. You can have a seat in the waiting room."

My mother-in-law and Laoise and Catriona arrived half an hour later, Roni's little suitcase packed and their bags of sewing or knitting with them. They settled into the seats in the waiting room, and I found I couldn't sit.

"Oh, go get yourself some coffee," Laoise said. "We could be here for hours before anything happens."

"I'm staying here."

Catriona smiled at me. "Would you like to learn to knit? It'll keep you occupied."

"No."

The doctor came into the waiting room. "Mr. Lowell?"

"Yes. What's wrong? Is my wife OK?"

He nodded. "She's having what we call rapid labor and is progressing quickly."

"Is that good?"

He tilted his head to the side. "It can have some effects on the mother and baby, but everything looks good now. We've sedated her so she's doing just fine and isn't feeling much pain at all. Just have a seat and we'll let you know when the baby's born."

I don't think I'd ever felt so helpless in my life as he walked away. "She'll be OK?"

Her mother nodded. "All my babies came fast. Catriona's did, too. Roni'll be fine."

"I don't even know who her first crush was."

The hens gaped at me, like I'd lost my mind. Maybe I had. But I remembered telling her I wanted us to get to know each other better. I wanted to know her first crush, and I'd tell her what happened during baseball tryouts in seventh grade.

"It was Conor Murphy. Cheeky little bugger," Laoise said.

"Never liked him and told him so," her mother said. "She got over him quick enough when he was caught walking Sorcha Reilly home. Oh, Roni blistered his ears when he showed up on our porch and tried to plead his innocence, then her brothers took him out back for a quick word."

I could imagine how that had gone, but I couldn't imagine what Veronica was going through now and it bothered me. I closed my eyes briefly, trying not to think of my mother dying so soon after giving birth. No baby should lose a parent, but a mother especially. I was beginning to understand what I'd missed by not having a mother as I watched Veronica's mother and aunts with their children. They had sharp tongues when needed, but they loved their children fiercely.

I wanted a chance to tell Veronica that myself and all that it meant.

After an hour of pacing, Laoise threatened to stab me with her knitting needles if I didn't sit down. So I sat for a while before I needed to move again, so I walked the hallway outside the waiting room. Up and down. Up and down. For two more hours I paced, and then the door opened and the doctor was smiling at me, and I heard the hens come up.

"Is my wife OK?"

"She is."

"And the baby?"

"Congratulations, Mr. Lowell, it's a girl. She's perfect."

My mother-in-law hugged me tight, followed by Catriona and Laoise.

"When can I see her?" I asked. "Them."

"She's coming out from the sedation so give us a few more minutes."

Those few minutes seemed to take forever, but eventually I was allowed into my wife's room where she was holding the baby. She looked at me, still groggy, but her smile was blinding.

"We have a girl," she said softly.

"We do, and I'm so thankful you two are OK," I said, pressing a kiss to my wife's lips.

"Do you want to know her name?" Roni asked as we both admired our daughter's tiny features.

"I'd love to."

"Mary Kathleen, for your mother."

I could only look at Roni and marvel at the depth of her soul. Patrick's words came rushing back to me.



I knew.



--- Chapter 32 (Veronica): Real ---



From the look in Paul's eyes, I knew naming our daughter Mary Kathleen had been the right thing to do. He was pleased, I could tell, and he said her name was perfect. Then he kissed me again, and it was one of those kisses that tasted like so many different things. It began as happiness, then turned to gratitude before it slid into remorse and finally it seemed to be asking me for my forgiveness. Under all of that was something else, something I couldn't put my finger on.

Of course, it could have been the drugs wearing off that they gave me to get through the birth.

"One of the nurses told me I should put on my face before you came in," I said, proving I still wasn't quite recovered from being sedated if I was blurting out something like that.

Paul kissed me again and that one tasted like trouble, the kind of trouble that put me in this hospital bed.

"You don't need one drop of makeup to be beautiful, Roni."

"I like kissing you," I murmured.  My mouth kept saying things it shouldn't be saying.

"Get used to it," he told me in that wonderful deep voice of his, then he kissed me again.

That one tasted like a promise.

For every one of the eight days I was in the hospital, Paul came to see me after he finished work and stayed until visiting hours ended. He brought me dinner, one day bringing me a cheeseburger, fries and a strawberry shake from McDonald's, another day a plate of food from my mother and one night Church's chicken. He surprised me one night with waffles from a brand new restaurant that had just opened called the Waffle House. He brought me flowers twice and new books to read.

And for every one of those eight days, I felt myself falling deeper in love with this man, but fortunately, I kept that to myself. We were getting along beautifully, learning so much about each other, but I wasn't sure he would welcome me loving him.

My mother, grandmothers, sisters and aunts came to see me during visiting hours, stopping by the nursery to see Mary Kathleen unless she had been brought to me for a feeding. We knitted, sewed and crocheted to pass the time, Mary Kathleen's pink wardrobe growing by the day. Aunt Laoise was a master at smocking, so she began most of the dresses and passed them to the other hens to finish.

"This nonsense about getting new mothers up and out of bed sooner than two weeks is ridiculous," Granny Orla said when I told her that they'd had me sit up and dangle my legs over the side of the bed only two days after giving birth. "Mark my words, this newfangled fad won't last."

So my stay passed and soon, Paul was driving me home in my car as I held Mary Kathleen in my arms. He helped me inside the house, and took me straight to our bed. The bassinette was already by my side, with a stack of diapers and a container of diaper pins on my dresser, as well as a bunch of rags for cleaning the baby.

"Your mother told me to get you right to bed," he said. "She and the hens were over earlier, cleaning and washing sheets and towels, and they left two casseroles in the refrigerator and told me to warm them up for our dinners."

That night, after I'd put Mary Kathleen down and settled myself into bed, Paul came and sat beside me.

"I need to tell you something," he said.

"Is it bad?" I asked.

He chuckled softly. "Roni, it's something good, I hope."

"About your job?"

"No, sweetheart. Nothing like that."

"Then what?"

"I need to explain a bit," he said softly. "My father's dying words to me were to get an education, make something of myself and do better. I took those words to heart, but I'd completely misinterpreted them. I thought he meant I should improve my social standing, become someone important, to make more money than he had. So I got an education, and I was trying to improve my social status by aligning myself with Barbara. It was all to do better in life."

"Not sure if being with someone who has the crabs is doing better," I said loftily.

Leaning over, he kissed the tip of my nose. "You are far superior in all ways. There is no comparison, and I'm sorry I ever thought she was the kind of wife I should have. I thought I was doing what my father asked."

He paused for a moment and looked away.

"My father always blamed himself for my mother dying young. He didn't make enough to support them, so she worked hard in a dirty factory in terrible conditions. But all he really wanted me to do, I finally realized, was make enough money to support my wife and family without my wife having to work, and he saw an education as a way to achieve that."

I boldly took his hand in mine. "I'm sorry, Paul."

"He never talked much about my mother, but we went to see her at the cemetery every Sunday no matter what. He made sure I was careful when I washed her china. We painted the kitchen yellow because she loved the color, and that was years after she died. He took her flowers on their anniversary, and he told me a number of times that she was a good woman. That's what I know about my mother. She was a good woman."

I tried to imagine a life without Ma, and my heart hurt for him so badly I had an urge to lay my head against his chest and hold him close.

"It's only recently that I figured out how much my father was saying when he told me she was a good woman. He was also saying he loved her and respected her, and he stayed true to her for the rest of his life."

He took a square, white box out of his shirt pocket and handed it to me.

"When I was going through the house after he died, I found this in his top dresser drawer. This must have been the only thing he kept of my mother's because I didn't find anything else of hers except a couple of pictures of her."

He nodded at me, and I opened it. Nestled in cotton was a pearl bracelet.

"They aren't real pearls, but I want you to have my mother's bracelet because, like her, you're a good woman, Roni."

My mother had warned me that women could be especially emotional after giving birth, but I think no matter when Paul had given this beautiful gift to me, the tears would have been filling my eyes.

"Thank you, Paul," I said with an inelegant sniffle. "These might as well be real because they couldn't be any more precious to me if they were."

Picking it up out the box, I had him clasp it around my wrist and we both admired it for a moment.

"It's beautiful on you," he said. "Your skin is perfect for pearls."

"I'll wear it for church and special occasions," I promised. "I'll take the best care of it."

Holding my wrist up for him to take it off, he kissed my hand. "Leave it on for a minute."

Then he pulled a long, thin box from his pants pocket.

"This is something I bought for you a few weeks ago."

Once again, he nodded, and I opened the box to find a pearl necklace.

"These are real pearls, Roni."

"Oh, Paul, it's gorgeous. Thank you."

"The bracelet is yours because you're a good woman. The necklace is yours because I love you, Roni, and my love and respect for you is as real as these pearls."



--- Epilogue (Paul): A Good Woman ---





When I'd told Veronica that I loved her, I'd done it with no expectations of her saying it back. It came from my heart, and I had this need for her to know. Maybe I was afraid of losing my chance considering my mother had died suddenly not long after giving birth, and maybe that latent fear was behind my urge to let Roni know how I felt about her. Even though I'd never spoken those words to anyone before, despite not knowing if she would want to hear them from me, I needed Roni to know that I was hers forever.

I'd told her how I felt, and my words hovered between us until even the echo of them faded. Watching her face carefully, I tried to read her like I read my witnesses. Although her face didn't tell me anything, my wife could speak without saying a word using those expressive eyes of hers. They'd been teary when I'd given her my mother's bracelet, even brighter when I'd given her the necklace and now they were soft like the way they had been when she told me our daughter's name.

"Ma always told my sisters and me that love usually happened in one of two ways," she said, her voice as soft and as sweet as her eyes. "Sometimes it struck suddenly and unexpectedly like a bolt of lightning and other times it came to you quietly, one step at a time, like someone sneaking up to surprise you."

I felt like Roni was telling me a story, but I had no idea how it would end. She'd been quite clear from the beginning that she wasn't in love with me. I'd said the same thing, but maybe I was the only one whose heart had undergone an overhaul.

"I thought the evening I met you at the nightclub that it had struck me like a lightning bolt, but it hadn't. Looking back, I realized I'd been bowled over by your good looks and your smile, but there was nothing substantial there. Nothing lasting, nothing but attraction. And then I overheard you talking to Barbara, and I didn't even you."

I had a sinking feeling I knew where this story was going.

"But then you started doing small things that made me think you weren't a idiot. You kept taking those small steps toward me that slowly made me think you had it in you to outgrow your idiocy and be a good man, a good husband and a good father," Roni said to me. "I thought that would be enough for our marriage to be a solid one."

Now I had some hope for the story.

"Sometimes, can turn out to be very good men who went through a phase but learned their lesson and turned themselves around," she said. "You began to show me that you really were sorry about what you'd been planning and kissing Barbara. You showed me you were thoughtful and caring, that what I said mattered to you, that you were listening to what I wanted, and you put my dreams before yours."

At this point, I didn't dare breathe because it seemed like the story might have a good ending.

"You did everything for the nursery, you learned to sing a lullaby and you didn't demand I cook for you when I went on strike. You went after every person who spread those rumors about me and made them pay. All the things you did, big and small...well, you snuck up on me, Paul, and I knew that love had come to me quietly, one step at a time."

I could breathe again, and all the air I'd been holding in my lungs rushed out from me.

"I love you, Paul."

That moment would be something I'd never forget. It was the first time I'd ever heard those words from another person and I'd hear Roni telling me that for the rest of my life. My father had loved me; I knew that, even if he never expressed it. But to hear it for the first time in my life?

My throat tightened, and I took my wife in my arms and simply held her. She loved me. After everything, this woman loved me. I didn't deserve it, but I would spend the rest of my life trying to.



Five months later, Roni had fully recovered and had launched her business. She had ten different women renting space in her shop to sell their clothing, and one of her sisters had suggested selling jewelry, accessories and pocket books as well. She'd found several women who wanted to sell their designs, and Siobhan had worked with several small companies to find scarves, sunglasses and pocket books for the store.

Her mother, aunts, sisters and cousins now gathered every day in the back room of the store to sew and design, and Laoise had carved out a small spot in the store to sell baby clothes. Mary Kathleen went with her mother and they had a playpen for her when someone wasn't holding her. On nice days, she took her naps outside the back door of the shop in her pram.

The hens were busy spreading the word and the opening day was widely successful. Mrs. Wilson had brought her friends and the clothes flew off the racks. Roni's eyes had been sparkling at the end of the long day.

"Can you believe it was such a success?"

I drew her to me and into my arms. "I never had one doubt it would be."

"I think I'm going to have to hire more women to sew if this keeps up," she said thoughtfully.

"That's a good thing," I said. "You're helping all of these women to earn money."

The shop closed at four, so Roni always beat me home. She cooked, and I washed dishes after. Then we both played with Mary Kathleen, read to her and got her ready for bed.

So when I got home from the office on my birthday, I was surprised that Roni's car wasn't in the carport. Her mother was going to watch Mary Kathleen while we went out to dinner.

A car pulled to a stop in front of our driveway. Her father and grandfather. Walking over to them, I looked at them quizzically.

"Is Roni OK? I thought she'd be home."

"She's fine," Patrick assured me. "Change of plans. Roni asked me to bring you to the dress shop and you can go from there."

"Just get in the car, jackass!" her grandfather yelled loudly.

Recently he'd stopped calling me that, so I was surprised to hear it again. Shrugging, I got into the backseat, and answered questions my father-in-law asked about the law firm.

We pulled up in front of the shop, and Patrick parked. He and Grandy got out of the car and I followed. We walked into the shop and it was empty.

"Where the hell is everyone?" Patrick asked.

"Maybe they're upstairs," I suggested. Roni had had plans to turn the upstairs into a large sewing area, so maybe they were discussing that and wanted our input.

The three of us went outside and then I used my other key to the building to unlock the door that led to the second story. When we got upstairs, her entire family was in the room along with Michael and Susan and the Wilsons.

"Surprise!" they all yelled

Veronica came toward me, holding Mary Kathleen. My wife kissed me and my daughter held her chubby arms out to me and I took her from her mother's arms and planted a loud kiss on her cheek that made her giggle.

"Happy birthday, Paul," Veronica said. "I hope you like your present."

"The party's great," I said. "Thank you."

I'd never had a party before. My dad had always taken me to A&W for hot dogs, fries and root beer floats on my birthday.

Veronica shook her head at me. "That's not your present. Look around, counselor."

But she'd said it with a wink so I knew she wasn't mad at me (and I knew the difference very well), so I realized she was calling me counselor for another reason.

Slowly scanning the room, I realized it'd been divided up into three smaller rooms with doors, and there was a large desk facing the door. Which, come to think of it, had been opened when we walked up here. I looked back and saw on the door's glass bold, arched lettering that read:





"Roni, what is this?"

My wife's hand caressed my cheek. "I saw no need to put off your dream so I could have mine."

"But you needed this area --"

My wife smirked at me. "I let you I needed this area. I talked with Dad and my brothers and uncles, and they did everything up here. Brought the furniture up, put it in place and set up a lovely office for you. Grandy even made a beautiful shingle for you to hang out over your door when you're ready."

"I didn't want you to use your money, sweetheart. I'll pay you back every cent."

"You certainly won't," she said indignantly. "You never took your lawyer fee, so think of it as payment for that. You should know that I want your dream to come true as much as you want mine to come true."

I pulled her as close as I could with one arm and a baby in the other.

"Thank you, Roni," I said quietly so no one else could hear. "You're a good woman, much better than I deserve."

"No. You became the man I deserved. Now come say hello to everyone, and then we can have some cake."

Her mother and father came up to us, and handed me an envelope that I could tell was filled with cash.

"A little something to help you get started," Patrick said in a low voice.

"I couldn't possibly accept this. You've already done so much, but thank you."

"Nonsense," Patrick said as my mother-in-law smiled at me. "We've done this for all our sons."

And he clapped me on the shoulder before they walked away. Roni squeezed my hand, and then we greeted all of our guests. When we got to the Wilsons, Mrs. Wilson's eyes were twinkling.

After we talked for a few minutes, Mrs. Wilson said, "I was at the grocers yesterday and guess who was working there?"

"No!" Veronica gasped, then whispered, "Should she be around groceries, what with the crabs?"

While I tried to keep a straight face, Mrs. Wilson had to explain to her dear Roni that it was quite all right.

"She looked like she'd rather be anywhere but where she was," Mrs. Wilson said. "And I imagine the woman who looked down on other women working has been quite humbled to find herself a member of the dreaded working class. Her father has already gone through the buyout money from his law firm, leaving dear, dear Barbara with no choice but to get a job."

The Chief Justice shook my hand and said the minute I was ready to go out on my own, he'd send me clients.

And two months later, when I did, he did, and my dream came true, right along with Veronica's.



We had four more children in addition to Mary Kathleen: Helen Saoirse, named after Mrs. Wilson and Veronica's mother; Paul Junior; Charles Patrick, for both of our fathers; and Seán Thomas, named for Veronica's grandfathers.

For ten years, we thought our family was complete, and then one evening after the children were in bed, Veronica came and sat beside me on the couch, where I was looking over a legal brief.

"I need to talk to you about something," my wife said to me.

"Are you OK?"

My wife absolutely beamed at me. "Yes. Just...pleasantly surprised. I'm sure you will be, too. Given our age and all."

"What are you getting at, sweetheart?" For once, I had no clue what my wife was talking about.

"I'll be needing a nursery in some months. We're having another baby, Paul. And if it's a girl, I want to name her after Granny Orla," she said, and I knew how much Veronica missed her grandmother since she'd died the previous month.

"Lord help her if she's anything like her great-granny," I said, grinning.

That proved prophetic. Orla came into the world screaming her head off and she always liked the spotlight. I knew this because hers was the only birth I witnessed since things had changed, and now, in 1971, fathers were being allowed in the rooms as their wives labored.

It was both humbling and miraculous to watch my Roni struggle to bring that tiny life into the world. It was a new experience for her, too, because they weren't as liberal with the sedation any longer.

Finally, sweaty, red-faced and exhausted, Ronis' smile was nevertheless illuminated with joy when she held our youngest. Mine was no doubt filled with relief that the pain was over for my wife.

"She'll keep us young," she murmured, tracing the baby's delicate features as she settled. "Imagine chasing after a baby at our ages!"

"She's a blessing, just like our other five." I smoothed some strands of hair away from Roni's face. "You're a good woman, and I love you more than you know."

"I love you, Paul," she said, and she kissed my lips that were hovering right above hers. "You know, I firmly believe Orla's our late-in-life gift."

"You're still the greatest gift of all, Roni," I said. "I never lose sight of that, and I never will."

Then both of us softly sang a lullaby to baby Orla, and as I always did, I sent up a prayer of thanksgiving that I'd been given a good woman to love and treasure for the rest of my life.



--- Chapter 31 (Paul): I Knew ---



"We're ready to welcome baby Lowell," Veronica said to me, her voice happy.

We were standing in the doorway of the nursery, admiring the furniture I'd put together and all of the details and decorations she'd put into the room to make it cozy for the baby. My mother-in-law and Veronica's grannies had made the baby's layette and my wife said the hens would all work on some pink or blue clothes once the baby arrived.

"The baby will have more outfits than we know what to do with," she laughed. "I bet by the time I get out of the hospital, they'll have all the little outfits done."

I thought of the house without Veronica for more than a week and knew I'd be at the hospital until visiting hours were over each of those days. In the two months since our convalidation ceremony, we'd been easier with each other, more comfortable. One night I'd come home from a long day in court and Veronica had surprised me with dinner, and she'd cooked every night after.

I sat beside Veronica on the couch, watching TV every night. She laughed at , and she loved the . I preferred  and , but I didn't really care what we watched together. After we turned off the television, I'd put my hand on her belly and tell the baby it was time to sleep. Then I'd sing a lullaby, and lately Veronica had been singing with me so maybe I sang a little slower to make it last longer. When she looked up at me, I forgot the words sometimes and lost myself in those eyes of hers, then she'd smile at me and I'd have to stop singing and listen to her before I could pick up the song again.

Was this love?

Michael had looked at me like I'd lost my mind one Saturday morning when we were playing golf and I'd asked how he'd known he loved Susan.

"I just did," he sputtered, searching for words, not used to a conversation like this. "She...just being around her made me feel good inside. Happy. And when I thought of the rest of my life, I wanted her to always be with me because I realized that she was my entire life, everything important to me and nothing mattered without her. Now line up your putt. Your short game still needs work."

Veronica made me feel good inside.

She made me feel happy.

I always wanted her to be with me.

That was a start, but I needed more to go on. So I stopped by my in-laws' house after work one night and asked to speak to Patrick. We went outside and he stared at me, suspiciously, waiting for me to start talking.

"I need a taste for this conversation," I said, so he went into his shed and brought back the whiskey bottle. I took a healthy swig and he did, too.

"How did you know you loved your wife?"

His face actually softened.

"Being with her was like hearing angels singing. Glorious. Unexpected. Beautiful. I felt like I could do anything when I was with her. She made me feel stronger and more powerful than I'd ever felt in my life."

I understood everything he was saying.

He stepped closer and thumped me in the chest with the back of his hand. "Most important, she made me want to be a better man. Some women inspire you that way and it's a gift, boyo. It's a fecking gift you've been given. And when you look at a woman and see her as a precious treasure, when you know you'd do anything for her, when you know you'd protect her with your life, when your heart about beats itself out of your chest simply because you're near her, then you know."

So for the months following our ceremony, I paid attention to how I felt and reacted when I was around Veronica, realizing that not every person's definition of love was the same. Sometimes when Veronica gave me a certain glance over her shoulder, it felt like I'd forgotten how to breathe. I'd look over to see her laughing when something funny happened in a TV show. I watched her in the kitchen and admired her grace.

On Sundays, when we walked into church together, her gloved hand tucked inside my arm, I felt proud that I had such a good woman on my arm -- and I somehow knew my father had felt the same way about my mother.

I enjoyed the way her mind worked when we talked about world events, and I found myself sneaking looks at her  magazines to see what she found so interesting in them. When I set up my electric putting machine in the living room one night, she watched me sink about fifty percent of my putts and said she thought she could beat me. Not thinking she was serious, I handed her my putter and set a ball on the ground for her.

She sunk it. We kept going, and she said she wanted an ice cream cone if she won. Even as pregnant as she was, she beat me, laughing the whole time. Veronica was all about laughter, and I realized how that had been missing in my life until I met her.

"Do you forget I have a father, uncles, brothers and cousins who all play golf? Forget Michael helping you with your short game -- help you."

I'd kissed her swiftly on her lips, then grabbed her sweater and a scarf for her hair, and we'd gone to get ice cream. I think she knew I would have taken her for ice cream even if she'd lost. After that first wager, we putted together every night with her asking for some small goodie if she won: McDonald's fries and a shake, a Hershey's bar, a new scarf she'd seen at the five and dime, a teddy bear for the baby.

She never asked for anything but small things, which is why she was so surprised when I took her to the car dealership one Saturday morning. She was feeling miserable since she was now more than a week past her due date, so I thought I'd cheer her up.

"Oh," she said sadly, thinking we were about to turn in the Thunderbird. "I wish we could have had one last ride."

I smiled at her. "No, Roni. We're here to pick up your car, not trade this one in. I was thinking that with your business and the baby, you should have your own car."

"We're going to own two cars?" she asked, practically gasping, her eyes wide.

"Yes," I said. "I didn't use your settlement money, Roni. I'm making more than I did at the old firm, and the Thunderbird's paid for. I put a good amount down, and your car will be paid for in a year or less. Considering it's really the only payment we have, I'll pay it off even earlier."

"Paul! I can't believe this! Thank you!" she said, throwing her arms around my neck, and I hugged her back. I followed Roni home in her Ford Fairlane, thinking the sea sprite green and white car suited her with all of its shiny chrome and detailing.

On Sunday we drove it to her parents' house after church and her family came out to admire the shiny new car. She cheerfully took them all for  short rides around the block, and I noticed a few sour looks from the men.

"You bloody bastard," her uncle hissed at me. "Now the hens are going to be clucking after us to get them their own damn cars."

"What the hell were you thinking, boyo?" her father scowled at me. "We should take you out back again for this."

We avoided that scene because Veronica's car came into view, and she was honking the horn over and over. We all belatedly realized that Veronica wasn't driving, Laoise was, and Veronica was in the passenger seat. She pulled to a stop in the driveway, and all of the women except for Veronica piled out of the car.

"She started having contractions!" Catriona said. "She said she's been feeling off today."

"Take her to the hospital," her mother told me. "Give me the key to your house and I'll meet you there after I stop by your house and pack Roni's bag."

"The hospital?" I repeated stupidly.

"She's having the baby finally! Get her to the hospital!"

I fumbled the keys in my hands, and then fumbled them again when I tried to pick them up. Siobhan yanked them from my hands and took the house key off the ring, then handed the car key back to me.

"Now shoo!" Granny Orla said.

I got into the car and shooed.

"Roni, are you OK?" I asked once we were on our way.

"Yes," she gasped. "Just having another contraction. They came on so suddenly."

"We're almost there, Roni. Hang on."

We made it to the hospital and I helped her inside where a nurse came to take her to the maternity ward. I rushed back outside to park the car, then ran to the hospital and followed directions to the maternity floor.

"I'm Paul Lowell," I said to the nurse behind the desk. "My wife, Veronica Lowell, was just brought in."

"Yes, Mr. Lowell. She's being settled in her room. You can have a seat in the waiting room."

My mother-in-law and Laoise and Catriona arrived half an hour later, Roni's little suitcase packed and their bags of sewing or knitting with them. They settled into the seats in the waiting room, and I found I couldn't sit.

"Oh, go get yourself some coffee," Laoise said. "We could be here for hours before anything happens."

"I'm staying here."

Catriona smiled at me. "Would you like to learn to knit? It'll keep you occupied."

"No."

The doctor came into the waiting room. "Mr. Lowell?"

"Yes. What's wrong? Is my wife OK?"

He nodded. "She's having what we call rapid labor and is progressing quickly."

"Is that good?"

He tilted his head to the side. "It can have some effects on the mother and baby, but everything looks good now. We've sedated her so she's doing just fine and isn't feeling much pain at all. Just have a seat and we'll let you know when the baby's born."

I don't think I'd ever felt so helpless in my life as he walked away. "She'll be OK?"

Her mother nodded. "All my babies came fast. Catriona's did, too. Roni'll be fine."

"I don't even know who her first crush was."

The hens gaped at me, like I'd lost my mind. Maybe I had. But I remembered telling her I wanted us to get to know each other better. I wanted to know her first crush, and I'd tell her what happened during baseball tryouts in seventh grade.

"It was Conor Murphy. Cheeky little bugger," Laoise said.

"Never liked him and told him so," her mother said. "She got over him quick enough when he was caught walking Sorcha Reilly home. Oh, Roni blistered his ears when he showed up on our porch and tried to plead his innocence, then her brothers took him out back for a quick word."

I could imagine how that had gone, but I couldn't imagine what Veronica was going through now and it bothered me. I closed my eyes briefly, trying not to think of my mother dying so soon after giving birth. No baby should lose a parent, but a mother especially. I was beginning to understand what I'd missed by not having a mother as I watched Veronica's mother and aunts with their children. They had sharp tongues when needed, but they loved their children fiercely.

I wanted a chance to tell Veronica that myself and all that it meant.

After an hour of pacing, Laoise threatened to stab me with her knitting needles if I didn't sit down. So I sat for a while before I needed to move again, so I walked the hallway outside the waiting room. Up and down. Up and down. For two more hours I paced, and then the door opened and the doctor was smiling at me, and I heard the hens come up.

"Is my wife OK?"

"She is."

"And the baby?"

"Congratulations, Mr. Lowell, it's a girl. She's perfect."

My mother-in-law hugged me tight, followed by Catriona and Laoise.

"When can I see her?" I asked. "Them."

"She's coming out from the sedation so give us a few more minutes."

Those few minutes seemed to take forever, but eventually I was allowed into my wife's room where she was holding the baby. She looked at me, still groggy, but her smile was blinding.

"We have a girl," she said softly.

"We do, and I'm so thankful you two are OK," I said, pressing a kiss to my wife's lips.

"Do you want to know her name?" Roni asked as we both admired our daughter's tiny features.

"I'd love to."

"Mary Kathleen, for your mother."

I could only look at Roni and marvel at the depth of her soul. Patrick's words came rushing back to me.



I knew.



--- Chapter 32 (Veronica): Real ---



From the look in Paul's eyes, I knew naming our daughter Mary Kathleen had been the right thing to do. He was pleased, I could tell, and he said her name was perfect. Then he kissed me again, and it was one of those kisses that tasted like so many different things. It began as happiness, then turned to gratitude before it slid into remorse and finally it seemed to be asking me for my forgiveness. Under all of that was something else, something I couldn't put my finger on.

Of course, it could have been the drugs wearing off that they gave me to get through the birth.

"One of the nurses told me I should put on my face before you came in," I said, proving I still wasn't quite recovered from being sedated if I was blurting out something like that.

Paul kissed me again and that one tasted like trouble, the kind of trouble that put me in this hospital bed.

"You don't need one drop of makeup to be beautiful, Roni."

"I like kissing you," I murmured.  My mouth kept saying things it shouldn't be saying.

"Get used to it," he told me in that wonderful deep voice of his, then he kissed me again.

That one tasted like a promise.

For every one of the eight days I was in the hospital, Paul came to see me after he finished work and stayed until visiting hours ended. He brought me dinner, one day bringing me a cheeseburger, fries and a strawberry shake from McDonald's, another day a plate of food from my mother and one night Church's chicken. He surprised me one night with waffles from a brand new restaurant that had just opened called the Waffle House. He brought me flowers twice and new books to read.

And for every one of those eight days, I felt myself falling deeper in love with this man, but fortunately, I kept that to myself. We were getting along beautifully, learning so much about each other, but I wasn't sure he would welcome me loving him.

My mother, grandmothers, sisters and aunts came to see me during visiting hours, stopping by the nursery to see Mary Kathleen unless she had been brought to me for a feeding. We knitted, sewed and crocheted to pass the time, Mary Kathleen's pink wardrobe growing by the day. Aunt Laoise was a master at smocking, so she began most of the dresses and passed them to the other hens to finish.

"This nonsense about getting new mothers up and out of bed sooner than two weeks is ridiculous," Granny Orla said when I told her that they'd had me sit up and dangle my legs over the side of the bed only two days after giving birth. "Mark my words, this newfangled fad won't last."

So my stay passed and soon, Paul was driving me home in my car as I held Mary Kathleen in my arms. He helped me inside the house, and took me straight to our bed. The bassinette was already by my side, with a stack of diapers and a container of diaper pins on my dresser, as well as a bunch of rags for cleaning the baby.

"Your mother told me to get you right to bed," he said. "She and the hens were over earlier, cleaning and washing sheets and towels, and they left two casseroles in the refrigerator and told me to warm them up for our dinners."

That night, after I'd put Mary Kathleen down and settled myself into bed, Paul came and sat beside me.

"I need to tell you something," he said.

"Is it bad?" I asked.

He chuckled softly. "Roni, it's something good, I hope."

"About your job?"

"No, sweetheart. Nothing like that."

"Then what?"

"I need to explain a bit," he said softly. "My father's dying words to me were to get an education, make something of myself and do better. I took those words to heart, but I'd completely misinterpreted them. I thought he meant I should improve my social standing, become someone important, to make more money than he had. So I got an education, and I was trying to improve my social status by aligning myself with Barbara. It was all to do better in life."

"Not sure if being with someone who has the crabs is doing better," I said loftily.

Leaning over, he kissed the tip of my nose. "You are far superior in all ways. There is no comparison, and I'm sorry I ever thought she was the kind of wife I should have. I thought I was doing what my father asked."

He paused for a moment and looked away.

"My father always blamed himself for my mother dying young. He didn't make enough to support them, so she worked hard in a dirty factory in terrible conditions. But all he really wanted me to do, I finally realized, was make enough money to support my wife and family without my wife having to work, and he saw an education as a way to achieve that."

I boldly took his hand in mine. "I'm sorry, Paul."

"He never talked much about my mother, but we went to see her at the cemetery every Sunday no matter what. He made sure I was careful when I washed her china. We painted the kitchen yellow because she loved the color, and that was years after she died. He took her flowers on their anniversary, and he told me a number of times that she was a good woman. That's what I know about my mother. She was a good woman."

I tried to imagine a life without Ma, and my heart hurt for him so badly I had an urge to lay my head against his chest and hold him close.

"It's only recently that I figured out how much my father was saying when he told me she was a good woman. He was also saying he loved her and respected her, and he stayed true to her for the rest of his life."

He took a square, white box out of his shirt pocket and handed it to me.

"When I was going through the house after he died, I found this in his top dresser drawer. This must have been the only thing he kept of my mother's because I didn't find anything else of hers except a couple of pictures of her."

He nodded at me, and I opened it. Nestled in cotton was a pearl bracelet.

"They aren't real pearls, but I want you to have my mother's bracelet because, like her, you're a good woman, Roni."

My mother had warned me that women could be especially emotional after giving birth, but I think no matter when Paul had given this beautiful gift to me, the tears would have been filling my eyes.

"Thank you, Paul," I said with an inelegant sniffle. "These might as well be real because they couldn't be any more precious to me if they were."

Picking it up out the box, I had him clasp it around my wrist and we both admired it for a moment.

"It's beautiful on you," he said. "Your skin is perfect for pearls."

"I'll wear it for church and special occasions," I promised. "I'll take the best care of it."

Holding my wrist up for him to take it off, he kissed my hand. "Leave it on for a minute."

Then he pulled a long, thin box from his pants pocket.

"This is something I bought for you a few weeks ago."

Once again, he nodded, and I opened the box to find a pearl necklace.

"These are real pearls, Roni."

"Oh, Paul, it's gorgeous. Thank you."

"The bracelet is yours because you're a good woman. The necklace is yours because I love you, Roni, and my love and respect for you is as real as these pearls."



--- Epilogue (Paul): A Good Woman ---





When I'd told Veronica that I loved her, I'd done it with no expectations of her saying it back. It came from my heart, and I had this need for her to know. Maybe I was afraid of losing my chance considering my mother had died suddenly not long after giving birth, and maybe that latent fear was behind my urge to let Roni know how I felt about her. Even though I'd never spoken those words to anyone before, despite not knowing if she would want to hear them from me, I needed Roni to know that I was hers forever.

I'd told her how I felt, and my words hovered between us until even the echo of them faded. Watching her face carefully, I tried to read her like I read my witnesses. Although her face didn't tell me anything, my wife could speak without saying a word using those expressive eyes of hers. They'd been teary when I'd given her my mother's bracelet, even brighter when I'd given her the necklace and now they were soft like the way they had been when she told me our daughter's name.

"Ma always told my sisters and me that love usually happened in one of two ways," she said, her voice as soft and as sweet as her eyes. "Sometimes it struck suddenly and unexpectedly like a bolt of lightning and other times it came to you quietly, one step at a time, like someone sneaking up to surprise you."

I felt like Roni was telling me a story, but I had no idea how it would end. She'd been quite clear from the beginning that she wasn't in love with me. I'd said the same thing, but maybe I was the only one whose heart had undergone an overhaul.

"I thought the evening I met you at the nightclub that it had struck me like a lightning bolt, but it hadn't. Looking back, I realized I'd been bowled over by your good looks and your smile, but there was nothing substantial there. Nothing lasting, nothing but attraction. And then I overheard you talking to Barbara, and I didn't even you."

I had a sinking feeling I knew where this story was going.

"But then you started doing small things that made me think you weren't a idiot. You kept taking those small steps toward me that slowly made me think you had it in you to outgrow your idiocy and be a good man, a good husband and a good father," Roni said to me. "I thought that would be enough for our marriage to be a solid one."

Now I had some hope for the story.

"Sometimes, can turn out to be very good men who went through a phase but learned their lesson and turned themselves around," she said. "You began to show me that you really were sorry about what you'd been planning and kissing Barbara. You showed me you were thoughtful and caring, that what I said mattered to you, that you were listening to what I wanted, and you put my dreams before yours."

At this point, I didn't dare breathe because it seemed like the story might have a good ending.

"You did everything for the nursery, you learned to sing a lullaby and you didn't demand I cook for you when I went on strike. You went after every person who spread those rumors about me and made them pay. All the things you did, big and small...well, you snuck up on me, Paul, and I knew that love had come to me quietly, one step at a time."

I could breathe again, and all the air I'd been holding in my lungs rushed out from me.

"I love you, Paul."

That moment would be something I'd never forget. It was the first time I'd ever heard those words from another person and I'd hear Roni telling me that for the rest of my life. My father had loved me; I knew that, even if he never expressed it. But to hear it for the first time in my life?



--- Chapter 24 (Paul): Do Better ---

